url:	http://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=10852&d=0&a=1
id:	10852
title:	Little Bird
author:	Ann Masibo
artist:	Marion Drew, Rob Owen, Wiehan de Jager, Microsoft Clip Art and blackmoondev.com
lang:	English
level:	Longer paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/10852.png
desc:	A story about a little bird that is always envious of others.

page_text:

P1	Once upon a time,  there lived a little bird in a warm,  cozy nest. The little bird loved to sing every morning from its big tree with strong branches.
P2	Every day when Little Bird looked up,  she could see monkeys swinging high up in the tree. They danced and climbed on the branches. Little bird wished that she could swing like them high up in the tree and dance like them.
P3	She wished and wished and wished,  until one morning,  she found that her wish had been granted. When she woke up,  she was a Little Monkey! She ran up the tree and swung on the highest branches and chattered: oo-ooh a-aah o-ooh a-aah o-ooh a-aah Oh how happy she felt!
P4	But one night,  there was a big storm in the forest. Little Monkey tried to hide in a nest but - she was too big! She could not fit into a nest - she was a monkey,  not a bird! She tried to hide with the other monkeys but they did not understand when she tried to talk to them; she was too chirpy! She sounded like a bird,  so they chased her away. Little Bird became so sad. She got rained on and rained on,  until she got a cold. If only she was a Little Bird again.
P5	Luckily for Little Bird,  the next day was better. She had turned into a Little Bird again. Oh,  how joyful she now was! She sung all day long in her nest. Little Bird soon forgot all about her ordeal when she saw a squirrel running on the ground. The squirrel ran playfully with his friends and jumped around.
P6	"Oh," wished Little Bird,  "if only I too could run on the ground with my friends." "Oh,  how I want to be a squirrel." Little Bird wished and wished and wished some more,  until she was turned into a Little Squirrel! She ran on the ground in glee and chased the other squirrels.
P7	But alas! What did she hear behind her? She turned just in time to see a big snake almost eat her! Oh,  poor Little Squirrel. She ran as fast as she could to look for a place to hide. The snake followed her so fast. Little Squirrel tried to get into a hole,  but it was already full of other squirrels. No-one wanted her there – they shut their door and shooed her away.
P8	Little Squirrel ran and ran until her feet felt so sore and tired. How she wished she had wings to fly away. But she was not a bird - she was a squirrel! After running for so long,  she found a big bush to hide in. She trembled as she hoped that the snake would not see her. The snake slithered and hiss-ssed as it came closer and closer. Little Squirrel tried to keep very,  very still so that the snake would not see her. Suddenly,  she heard something jump in front of her. Little Squirrel knew that she had been found out and she closed her eyes very tight and waited - to be eaten.
P9	It was soo silent that she was sure that the snake had swallowed her and she was in the snake's stomach. She opened her eyes slowly,  the left eye,  then the right. When she looked up,  she saw a hare running away. It was the hare that had jumped and frightened her so. The snake was now chasing hard after the hare. Little Squirrel stood up slowly,  her little heart pounding in her chest. She was so glad that she was alive.
P10	Little Squirrel promised that if she became a bird again,  she would never,  ever complain. She would be grateful because she could fly,  and that she could fit in her nest. The next morning,  when Little Squirrel woke up,  she was a Little Bird again. She sang in her little nest and happily stayed content.

images:

illustrations/pages/2164.png
illustrations/pages/2156.png
illustrations/pages/5957.png
illustrations/pages/5957.png
illustrations/pages/2116.png
illustrations/pages/2164.png
illustrations/pages/10847.png
illustrations/pages/5921.png
illustrations/pages/5642.png
illustrations/pages/10293.png
illustrations/pages/2160.png

translations:

