url:	http://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=13086&d=0&a=1
id:	13086
title:	Hare and Hyenas Fight
author:	Jane Tsharane
artist:	Rob Owen and Wiehan de Jager
lang:	English
level:	Read aloud
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/13086.png
desc:	Why Hyena and Hare are not friends anymore.

page_text:

P1	Once a upon a time there lived Hare and Hyena and the two were great neighbours. They use to talk about the families and how beautiful the world is Hyena used to own a huge farm which he loved dearly,  but it was too much work for him to plant everything by himself. He then thought of asking a favour from his neighbour the Hare. So one day he went to see Hare and asked if he could help him with his farm. And in return he would pay Hare with some nuts from his farm. They agreed that good neighbours help each other.
P2	Hare used to sit all day doing nothing and when Hyena came home after work,  Hare would always ask him for nuts from his farm. But Hyena didn't like this very much. Hyena believes in working hard and not getting things for free.
P3	So one day Hyena thought to himself,  "Its so hard to work all day by myself. Maybe Hare could help me and in return he can get some nuts that he has actually worked for." Hare agreed to his terms and they shook hands on it because he thought it was a good deal. They also agreed that more work could be done and they will also get enough food for their families.
P4	The two worked so good together. They would work and laugh together. Hare would dig and plant and Hyena would help and sing along as they went. Hyena was very happy because he was able to plant a lot more than before.
P5	Hare was a really hard worker and worked all day long with no rest. He would work fast and faster. But he felt like he was working too much and wanted a raise because what Hyena was paying too little.
P6	He took the Hyena to the Field and showed him all the grown crops and he said to hyena, "Look at all this,  I planted everything and I deserve to be paid more," Hare said. Hyena looked very disturbed and said, "No,  we did this together so I can't pay you more. Don't forget who's farm this is." He shouted But Hare was not very happy about this and walked away angry and disappointed.
P7	Hyena was very worried. Hyena went home and thought to himself "How am I going to solve this because Hare is a very hard worker indeed and I can't afford to lose him." So Hyena called Hare for a meeting and asked him,  "How much more nuts do you want?" Hare was very clever so he thought about it for a while,  excitedly he said "Mmmmm do you know what would make me happy? Is if you gave me half of your farm and keep the other half."
P8	Hyena thought for a moment. "Fine you can have some only if you keep working as hard as you have been doing." Hare smiled and said fair enough,  he knew he had made a great deal. So he agreed to this immediatly.
P9	But as time went by,  Hare stopped working as hard and instead he would sit and sing all day. Hyena worked so hard and so long,  that he was beginning to hate Hare. He was disappointed and wondered why he even agreed to the terms in the first place.
P10	Hyena got very worried about Hare's bad behaviour. One day Hyena came up with a brilliant idea to solve both their problem. "I wanted us to be friends and good neighbours but now we have a problem" said Hyena. "We are good friends we have shared a farm,  good friends respect each other," then the Hare agreed. "I don't like how you do things,  you are lazy and not keeping to the agreement" said Hyena.
P11	"If you don't help with the chores then get off my farm" said Hyena. Hare refused to get off because he was use to the free food that he was getting. But Hyena was fed up and chased him away and warned him "if I ever catch you on my farm again,  I will eat you." That is why to this day Hyena is always chasing Hare when he sees him near his land and Hare is always hiding in the fields trying to steal food from farms.

images:

illustrations/pages/8150.png
illustrations/pages/8144.png
illustrations/pages/8145.png
illustrations/pages/8146.png
illustrations/pages/8147.png
illustrations/pages/8143.png
illustrations/pages/8142.png
illustrations/pages/8137.png
illustrations/pages/8136.png
illustrations/pages/8140.png
illustrations/pages/8150.png
illustrations/pages/5912.png

translations:

Afrikaans (Translation)	Haas en Hiëna	id=11387
Dhopadhola (Translation)	Goroki Pa Ochulu Kodi Ondieki	id=20634
English (Original)	Hare and Hyena	id=8179
