url:	http://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=13621&d=0&a=1
id:	13621
title:	Ajuma's Guardian Angel
author:	Rose Wanjiku Murugi
artist:	Jesse Breytenbach and Wiehan de Jager
lang:	English
level:	Read aloud
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/13621.png
desc:	Ajuma

page_text:

P1	Ajuma was a very bright and hard-working girl who maintained the top position in class. She came from a poor family of her mother,  two brothers and one sister. Ajuma's mother was a firm believer in God and told them about guardian angels. Ajuma's mother often said that the work of guardian angels was to protect human beings from harm and to guide them in whatever they did. Ajuma often wondered whether angels really existed or whether they were her mother's imagination. She was known to have very wild imagination about anything and every and was a talented storyteller.
P2	When ajuma was in standard seven, things took a turn for the worst. She was diagnosed with cancer of the bone marrow. She was bedridden for weeks which turned into months. The treatment was so expensive that all her siblings had to drop out of school for luck of fees. Ajuma contemplated suicide and thought of all the ways to end her life fast. She looked up various ways people use to end their lives. She would have done it were it not for her religion which taught that it was sinful for one to end his life. It also resulted in serious health risks if one survived the process.
P3	Ajuma began doubting Gods existence and even vowed to stop praying but there was no one else to turn to except God. She would look at the pictures of Jesus and burst into tears not understanding why God could allow such a thing to happen to her and her family. She read of stories of angels rescuing people from harm. She specifically remembered the one of apondi, a young girl who prayed to her guardian angel who protected her while passing through a dark alley which had a rapist. Another small girl passed through the same alley and was raped and murdered. The rapist on the news when asked why he saw and let the first girl go, he said he saw that she was walking with a man and was thus afraid to attack her.
P4	She now began to see that they may have been false stories. Despite her doubts, she continued praying for months and one evening she burst into tears and implored God to remove these doubts from her and prove to her whether he exists or not. That night she dreamt of a bright light which nearly blinded her eyes. As she raised her hands to shield her face from it, she saw a figure which had spread its gigantic white wings and was looking at her with intense love that all the fear melted away.
P5	When she woke up it was around three in the morning. The room was very dark and she closed her eyes. As she was reaching for the blanket to cover her head, a huge non-human figure appeared. It had spread its white glorious wings and looked the same as from the dream. Again the fear melted from her and the figure disappeared just as it had appeared. "Mother! Mother!" her mother dashed into her hospital room and embraced her while crying loudly."Mother why are you crying?" ajuma asked."You will soon know my dear"."Mother, i saw a huge thing that had very enormous wings! It was as white as chalk and." "I know dear," ajuma's mother said amidst cries, "I saw it too." "What was it?" ajuma asked."Your guardian angel." She replied.
P6	Soon afterwards ajuma started sitting on her own, then she began walking towards the hospital bed and back, and was later discharged. The bone marrow cancer never resurfaced.

images:

illustrations/pages/9850.png

translations:

