url:	http://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=14252&d=0&a=1
id:	14252
title:	My Home
author:	Amos Onyiego Mayaka
artist:	Catherine Groenewald, Magriet Brink, Jesse Pietersen, Rob Owen, Silva Afonso, Vusi Malindi, Silva Afonso and Vusi Malindi, Marion Drew and Melany Pietersen
lang:	English
level:	Longer paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/14252.png
desc:	A short storybook that with no doubt will fit children of age 9-11. The storybook flows with well illustrations that make the story interesting to the young readers. It is simply meant to entertain the children as they encounter the language of English.

page_text:

P1	My name is Sarah. I am nine years old and i am in class one. My father is called Juma and my mother is Anna. I am the last born among my three brothers. The names of my three brothers are John,  Peter and Moses. We live together in our house at Kaloleni. I love my parents and my brothers.
P2	My mother is a farmer and my dad is a driver. When my father leaves in the morning for work mum will stay with us at home. I love my parents very much. My father brings me sweets every day when he comes back from work. I usually don't eat the sweets alone. Our teacher said  we should share what we have with others. I share with my brothers everything that my dad buys for me.
P3	Our house is surrounded by a big fence. Mum says that the fence will protect us from thieves. We also have a big gate and a dog. Our dog is called Jimmy. It barks at any stranger that comes near our gate.
P4	Every morning my mother cooks for us breakfast. She gives us tea and bread to take. My father told me that we should not take tea. He said children should take porridge. Porridge will make us grow fast. I take porridge because i want to grow up fast.
P5	My brothers and  I did not go to school today. Today is Saturday. Our teacher told us to help our parents when we are away from school. My brother and i feed our hens. One of our hens recently hatched it's eggs. It has beautiful chicks. Our hens eat grains like maize and wheat.
P6	I always help my mother with washing the dishes and sweeping our  house. Today i am collecting dirty dishes to take them to kitchen to wash them. As i opened our cupboard, two big rats jump out of it. These rats scared me very much. My father said he will buy a cat. The cat will chase away the rats.
P7	This is my brother Moses and Jimmy our dog. Moses likes playing too much with our dog. Last night my dad told him to avoid playing with the dog. My dad said that the dog should be left alone. The dog may bite him.
P8	My brothers and i are now free from work. We have finished our homework. My mother helped me with doing my homework. I like playing hide and seek but my brothers said today we will play football. Moses says he will become a great footballer in futureWe usually don't play alone. Friends from our neighborhood always come to play with us. I love my friends.
P9	The weather is now cloudy. It will rain soon. We must leave for home before it rains. Our teacher said we should not stay at open places when it's raining. He said that it's dangerous because of the lightening.
P10	It started raining as soon as we entered our house. Our parents are not yet at home. We are happy because it did not rain on us. Outside we could hear the sound of frogs. I don't like frogs. They look ugly and they make a bad sound.
P11	My mother came home as soon as it stopped raining. She had gone to the market to sell some bananas and vegetables. Today she did not sell all the bananas. She said we could eat the remaining bananas if we like.
P12	This is our tractor. It belongs to my father. He uses it to dig our big garden at the back of our house. Our farm has different types of crops like maize, wheat. Sorghum and millet. Sometimes birds destroy our crops. My dad placed something in the middle of the garden to scare away the birds. He said the thing is called a "scarecrow'."
P13	Today is Monday.I went to school today. This is my classroom. Our teacher is called  Mr Wamalwa. We love our teacher very much. Mr Wamalwa always tells me to work hard. In future i want to become a pilot.

images:

illustrations/pages/13387.png
illustrations/pages/13382.png
illustrations/pages/11674.png
illustrations/pages/13387.png
illustrations/pages/13743.png
illustrations/pages/14037.png
illustrations/pages/14043.png
illustrations/pages/14036.png
illustrations/pages/14055.png
illustrations/pages/14104.png
illustrations/pages/13415.png
illustrations/pages/13697.png
illustrations/pages/12987.png
illustrations/pages/14056.png

translations:

