url:	http://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=14269&d=0&a=1
id:	14269
title:	Hare and Hyena
author:	Dennis Mulwa
artist:	Wiehan de Jager and Rob Owen
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/14269.png
desc:	The Hare and The Hyena

page_text:

P1	Long,  long time ago,  animals used to speak.  There lived Hare and Hyena.
P2	The two were very closed friends.  They did everything together including looking for food.
P3	Hare was very clever. She gathered more food than the lazy Hyena.
P4	Hyena was lazy but he liked eating very much. Although they hunted differently,  they put the food together.
P5	Hare used her tricks to get food faster.   She also ate some before taking it to where Hyena was.
P6	During the drought,  it was very hard for the two to gather enough food for themselves.
P7	Hyena stopped looking for food.  He depended on the little that Hare brought home. This made Hare very hungry and unhappy. When Hare came home without food,  she became discouraged.
P8	The hyena did not show any sign of changing from this nature of being a parasite and depending on all the hare could gather. Life became so hard for the hare to feed hyena without contributing anything and decide to make plan on how to get rid of the lazy hyena.
P9	One day,  Hare woke Hyena up very early in the morning. They stood under a tree to discuss how they were going to live.
P10	Their conversation did not come to a conclusion because they had different views and ideas. Hyena argued that he was unable to get anything because he could not run as fast as Hare. He said he could do all the household work and let Hare hunt.
P11	One evening as Hare was hunting,  she saw a tree full of unripe grapes. She sat down under a tree and planned on how to eat them and carry some home. It was not easy because the garden was fenced.
P12	With much efforts,  the hare managed to reach the tree. He climbed and fell as much grapes as he could. He then ate the others since he was very hungry. Down the tree he gathered the rest in the basket he had carried. As he tried to carry,  he was unable because he had eaten so much. He then decided to have a rest before carrying them. Unfortunately he felt asleep and the owner of then garden found him dead asleep unable to escape. Hare had now fallen in a trap. The owner of the garden tied him with a long rope and left him as he was very sure he was unable to escape.
P13	The rope was so long that hare managed to move up to the homestead still tied where he fooled his friend hyena that there was a very big party and he had been sent tied up to come for hyena and tie him with that long rope so that he could not get lost in the way.
P14	The foolish hyena untied the hare and tied himself where he followed the rope at long last he landed at the owners garden where he found the owner eagerly waiting with a very big knife. The hyena was slaughtered instantly and fed to the owners dogs and his skin was used to make a scare crow.

images:

illustrations/pages/8138.png
illustrations/pages/8138.png
illustrations/pages/8142.png
illustrations/pages/8143.png
illustrations/pages/5913.png
illustrations/pages/8140.png
illustrations/pages/10603.png
illustrations/pages/8137.png

translations:

Amharic (Translation)	ጥንቸልና ጅብ	id=21218
Hausa (Nigeria) (Translation)	Zomanya Da Kura	id=21369
