url:	http://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=14271&d=0&a=1
id:	14271
title:	A Forest With  Snakes
author:	Loise W Wakahia
artist:	Magriet Brink, Leo Daly and Catherine Groenewald
lang:	English
level:	Read aloud
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/14271.png
desc:	A story about two brothers and their sister who went to look for firewood and then encountered a huge snake which swallowed their sister.

page_text:

P1	One day Sam, Ken and Becky were sent to the forest to collect firewood. The forest was very dangerous so their grandmother had warned them not to play there whenever they went to collect firewood.
P2	The forest was far from their home. Their  mother could have gone with them but she went to the market to buy vegetables.
P3	They went in the forest and did not come back on time. Their mother came back and wondered where they were. She was worried since everybody had been talking about that dangerous forest. It was full of snakes which swallowed full goats and people. The forest also had giants which got hold of small children and forced them to work for them.
P4	When they were leaving home,  they had been warned not to go deep in the forest. Becky was so notorious and decided to go deep in the forest. She told her brothers to go with her but they refused. She told them she had seen a lot of firewood the last time she had been there but they refused.
P5	She always wanted to do what she had been warned. As she was looking for firewood she came across a man who told her that he could show her where lots of firewood were found. He said he lived in the forest since he was a hunter. She called her brothers to go with her and collect lots of firewood. Her brothers reminded her that they had been warned of talking to strangers but she decided to go on.
P6	Sam and Ken fetched firewood and waited for their sister but she could not appear. They decided to go home. When they reached home their mother asked where she was but they did not know. Becky was taken to the man's home. The man said that since it was late  he could take her home the next day. The man lived in a very strange place with animals. Becky was afraid but she spent the night.
P7	The man changed at night. His hands became longer with so many fingers, his head became bigger and his  eyes enlarge. His feet looked like those of an elephant. She got scared and wanted to run away the next morning. She remembered that her brothers had warned her.
P8	Her mother picked a torch and went to look for her. She searched and called her name but she could not be found. Becky was planning of running away but the man said that she could only let her go if she knew his name. Everyday Becky listened to hear whether he could say his name. One day he was so drunk and he said"my name is ogaogasheshili"The name was too long for Becky to pronounce correctly.
P9	She wept everyday because she wanted to go home but  could not pronounce the name correctly. The ogre one day found her crying and demanded to know why she was crying. Becky said that she had heard him say his name but could not pronounce it. When the ogre heard that she was trying to know his name, he changed into a big snake.
P10	The snake started talking and said"nobody knows my name"Becky was so afraid and started running away. She did not go far when she was swallowed alive. Her family searched everywhere but could not find her. Her brothers were left in sorrow since they loved her so much. They  vowed never to disobey.

images:

illustrations/pages/10763.png
illustrations/pages/14041.png
illustrations/pages/14032.png
illustrations/pages/10771.png
illustrations/pages/13908.png
illustrations/pages/13399.png
illustrations/pages/13913.png
illustrations/pages/320.png
illustrations/pages/10763.png
illustrations/pages/13916.png

translations:

Dhopadhola (Translation)	Luuli Manitye Thwole	id=20841
Hausa (Nigeria) (Translation)	Daji Mai Macizai	id=20758
