url:	http://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=14396&d=0&a=1
id:	14396
title:	Mwema the Bad Boy
author:	Mugo G
artist:	Silva Afonso and Vusi Malindi and Melany Pietersen
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/14396.png
desc:	The story is about a boy called Mwema.He grew up in a loving family but things change when he joins school.He makes friends with bad characters who influence his school life.His friends are left in school but he is expelled for misconduct.His parent6s suffer a big blow.

page_text:

P1	            In the village of Kawendo,  a boy named Mwema was born. He was the only boy in a family of three girls. He was loved by his parents, especially his father. Every evening after work the question that came from his father was always about him. His sisters also loved him too. Whenever they went shopping, they would always go with him. He grew up being loved by everyone surrounding him.
P2	He became of age and was to join a school in the village. He was very happy to receive those news. All that he needed had been bought by his parents. He was always looking at the new uniforms he was to wear on that day. All that was worrying him was his pet. He loved his pet very much. He always went to graze in the fields with his second born sister.
P3	  The day Mwema longed finally came. On this day, he woke up earlier than he used to. His mother had always woken him up but she was surprissed to find a well made bed. They had breakfast as usual and headed to school.
P4	   On their way to school, he kept peeping through the window to see if he could trace the school. He was also happy to see animals such as; gazelles, zebras graing on the green grass. By the look of his face, you could tell that he was eager to start new life in school. His father also gave him of how he was also excited that he had joined school. He gave him some advice on how he was to conduct himself in school.
P5	  After an exciting two hour drive, they were right infront of the school gate. There was big sign post that read: HAPPY END TIMES PRIMARY SCHOOL. Mwema was very happy they had arrived. The school itself looked beautiful from outside. Flowers had been planted all over the school making it look attractive. The compound was very clean. Litter dropping was something punishable.
P6	     Even though the queus were long, the admission process was conducted quite in a rash. By 2pm they were done with everything. They had lunch together and time came for the parents to leave. Mwena was left alone to make new friends. He managed to make a few friends that evening who later became his bestfriends.
P7	His first day in class was amazing. He got to class the first pupil though he was not used to. The other pupils joined him later. Everybody introduced himself. The class teacher was called Mr Maweu. Mwema started having bad influence from his friends. He started experiencing problems with the other pupils. He was always fighting his friends for petty mistakes. Mr Maweu punished him occassionally but the habit kept growing big.
P8	Everytime a teacher left work to be done, Mwema and his friends never did. The habit of laziness was evident in the three of them. He abused his fellow classmates for reasons best known to him. This became a major problem that it had to be addressed to the headteacher. Mwema was warned of his bad habit and he promised to change. His parents had also been called to witness.
P9	Mwemas' character was also reflected in his exam. His poor results was due to bad company. His parents could not really understand what really was wrong with their child. He had chaanged from being good to worse.
P10	The headteacher could not tolerate his habit. Mwema had started being rude to his teachers. The headteacher was left with no option but expel him. His parents were called to get their son. That was how Mwema transformed from a good boy in the village to a bad character in school. This teaches us to be good people wherever we are.

images:

illustrations/pages/14058.png
illustrations/pages/13754.png
illustrations/pages/14039.png
illustrations/pages/13855.png
illustrations/pages/13744.png
illustrations/pages/13387.png
illustrations/pages/13754.png
illustrations/pages/14114.png
illustrations/pages/13854.png
illustrations/pages/14057.png
illustrations/pages/14019.png

translations:

