url:	http://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=14562&d=0&a=1
id:	14562
title:	The Zoo
author:	Wanjiku Rose Murugi
artist:	Melany Pietersen
lang:	English
level:	Longer paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/14562.png
desc:	A day is well spent by a trip to an amazing place

page_text:

P1	It was during December holidays. Today we had woken up earlier than usual because father and mother had promised to take us on a trip. They did not tell us where because they said it would be a surprise. Smell of bacon eggs wafted in the air leaving me sniffing like a hungry wild dog. Mother was a habitual early riser and had already prepared breakfast by the time we had finished getting ready. It was delicious.
P2	"The zoo! Its the zoo! I exclaimed with surprise. Nana, my small sister,  woke up and started bouncing on her seat with excitement. Mother just smiled. We alighted the car.I saw small monkeys hanging and playing on the iron bars of the entrance gate to the zoo.I showed nana and she squealed in delight. Father went into a small office and we followed him. He produced his national identity card and paid our entrance fees.A guard appeared and instructed us not to feed the animals as it would interfere with their usual diet. He however said we could only feed ostriches with  spinach and kales and monkeys with bananas."
P3	Inside, mother held nana's hand while father held mine. We saw pink ostriches in a pond.I asked mother why they were so many and in the water. She said it was because they were looking for insects, worms and fish to eat. The landscape was green and beautiful. There were also wild ducks swimming in the pond with their young ones. We also saw thompsons gazelle, giraffes, warthogs, white rhinos and a lion.
P4	In the evening, i was feeling very thirsty and M bought me a chocolate flavored ice cream. Nana preferred the vanilla flavored one. The ice cream man had a protruding potbelly which danced every time he laughed. We left the ice cream man talking to mother and father about the weather and went to admire the different colored candies in the next stall.
P5	I saw a clown and started laughing.I find them hilarious. Nana immediately let out a blood curdling scream and hid behind father. She is terrified of clowns. The many colored balloons floating in the wind on his left hand attracted my attention.I especially loved the red one and mother bought it for me. Nana became more at ease and came out of hiding. The clown danced and made fun and nana let out a small soft giggle revealing her deep dimples on either side of her cheeks.
P6	The giraffe! Father i want the giraffe! We turned towards the direction nana was pointing and saw a variety of dolls ranging from giraffes to elephants to monkeys.I must admit my sister had taste because the giraffe was the most beautiful doll on display. Father asked the price and was told it was a hundred shillings. He purchased the light green giraffe with brown spots. Nana smiled with glee as she was handed the doll. She continued licking her vanilla flavored ice cream.
P7	After we had finished our ice creams, mother said that it was a day well spent. Father, nana and i agreed. Mother said that if we behaved ourselves then they would take us to another exciting place very soon. Nana felt sleepy and complained of sore foot and father carried her as we neared the exit.I kept my eyes glued to the floating balloon as mother gently put her warm hand on my small back.
P8	We entered the car and mother closed the back doors making sure they were safely locked before entering and closing her own door. Father ignited the car and set it in motion leaving a small cloud of dust behind. Mother tuned in the radio in time to hear the four o clock news. Nana was already asleep and softly snoring.I soon nodded into slumber leaving the name of Honorable Mwai Kibaki giving a speech on increment of salary for civil servants. It indeed was a day well spent.

images:

illustrations/pages/13745.png
illustrations/pages/13743.png
illustrations/pages/13745.png
illustrations/pages/13749.png
illustrations/pages/13747.png
illustrations/pages/13748.png
illustrations/pages/13752.png
illustrations/pages/13753.png
illustrations/pages/13751.png

translations:

