url:	http://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=15131&d=0&a=1
id:	15131
title:	Searching For The Spirit Of Spring
author:	Mosa Mahlaba
artist:	Selina Masego Morulane
lang:	English
level:	Read aloud
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/15131.png
desc:	Nkanyezi can’t wait for the Spring festival

page_text:

P1	The Winter cold had passed. Spring was coming to Nkanyezi's village. Soon the villagers would gather to celebrate the new season. Nkanyezi looked forward to the Spring festival more than any other day in the year.
P2	One warm morning,  Nkanyezi overheard two village elders talking about the festival. "The people of Ndlovu have lost their spirit of celebration," one sighed. "How can we have a Spring festival in a village that has forgotten how to celebrate?" asked another.
P3	Nkanyezi was worried. "How will the sun shine again unless we sing to wake it from its winter slumber?" she asked herself. Nkanyezi thought for a long time. "I must find what we have lost," she decided. "I must go in search of things that will bring back the spirit of celebration to my village."
P4	The elders gave Nkanyezi their blessing for the journey. They gave her a bag to carry the things she would find. Nkanyezi was afraid,  but she believed she would succeed.
P5	Nkanyezi walked all day. She hiked up a hill,  and down into a valley. She sailed across the great river,  and climbed between sharp rocks. She marched across the plains until she reached the shadow of the red mountains.
P6	As night was closing in,  Nkanyezi arrived at a village of patterns and colours as she had never seen before. She told the village elders about her journey to bring back the spirit of celebration to her people.

The mother of this tribe gave Nkanyezi a gift. She told the girl, "With love we give to you this paint to restore colour to your village." Nkanyezi thanked the elders and put the paint in her bag. Early the next morning she went on her way.
P7	Nkanyezi walked all day,  through a vast forest of giant trees. As the sky became too dark for her to see,  she heard the sound of beating drums. She hurried towards the drumming,  feeling the spirit of dance coming to her tired feet.
P8	Nkanyezi found herself in the village of the Bhubezi. People were sitting around a fire,  drumming and singing. She had never before heard such wonderful music. She told the village elders about her journey to bring back the spirit of celebration to her people. The Bhubezi invited her to rest and stay the night.
P9	In the morning the chief called on Nkanyezi. "My child," he said,  "here is a special drum. It plays a new song every time you beat it." Nkanyezi thanked the elders and put the drum in her bag. She went on her way again,  delighted with this gift of music and dance.
P10	On the third day of her journey,  as she a passed a field of fat cows,  her nose started to tingle. An aroma tickled her taste buds and her mouth started to water. She followed the scent,  and arrived in a village to find people standing over steaming pots of stew. This tribe was famous for its feasts and Nkanyezi had never before tasted such flavours. After she had eaten her fill,  she told the village elders about her journey to bring back the spirit of celebration to her people.
P11	The next day,  the council of cooks gave her a secret spice blend. "Our daughter," they said,  "with these spices,  happy tummies are guaranteed! We give you the gift of good food." Nkanyezi thanked the elders and put the spices in her bag. She knew she had everything she needed. With new energy she started the long journey back to the village of Ndlovu.
P12	When she arrived home the villagers gathered around her to hear of her adventures. She told them the tales of what she had seen,  heard,  and eaten. Then she opened her bag to share the gifts given. The villagers rejoiced to receive these treasures. The generosity of others and the courage of Nkanyezi brought back colour,  song and dance to the people.  And so the spirit of celebration was restored to the village of Ndlovu.

images:

illustrations/pages/15119.png
illustrations/pages/15119.png
illustrations/pages/15120.png
illustrations/pages/15121.png
illustrations/pages/15122.png
illustrations/pages/15123.png
illustrations/pages/15124.png
illustrations/pages/15125.png
illustrations/pages/15126.png
illustrations/pages/15127.png
illustrations/pages/15128.png
illustrations/pages/15129.png
illustrations/pages/15130.png

translations:

Afrikaans (Translation)	Soektog Na Die Gees Van Lente	id=20095
ChiTonga (Translation)	Kuyandaula Muuya Wakusekelela Cilimo	id=18657
CiNyanja (Translation)	Kusakila Mutima Wacisangalalo	id=18674
IciBemba (Translation)	Ukufwaya Umupashi Wa Lusuba	id=18680
isiXhosa (Translation)	Ukukhangela Umoya Wentwasahlobo	id=17582
isiZulu (Translation)	Silangazelela Ugqozi Lokubungaza Intwasahlobo	id=16093
Sepedi (Translation)	Lesolo La Go Bušetša Moya Wa Go Keteka Seruthwane	id=19049
Sesotho (South Africa) (Translation)	Ho Batlana Le Moya Wa Hwetla	id=20050
Setswana (Translation)	Leeto La Go Batla Moya Wa Boitumelo	id=15272
SiLozi (Translation)	Kubataula Milimu Ya Mbumbi	id=18746
Tshivenda (Translation)	U Pembelele Luṱavule	id=18191
Xitsonga (Translation)	Ku Famba U Lavana Na Nchumu Lowu Nga Na Khombo Hi Ximun’Wana	id=19019
