url:	http://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=15206&d=0&a=1
id:	15206
title:	My Family
author:	Erick Bongoye Nyachieo
artist:	Abraham Muzee, Brian Wambi, Michael Omadi, Vusi Malindi and Melany Pietersen
lang:	English
level:	Longer paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 3.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/15206.png
desc:	short story a bout a family that stays together and is happy

page_text:

P1	Once upon a time  in a village far away in Gusii land,  there lived a family of nine members. The village was known as  Borabu,  it was rich with bananas and sweet potatoes. The children went to Barabu primary school. The first born,  Bongoye; loved to play football and reading story books,  the next in line were twins,  Maria and Mary,  they loved playing hide and seek and also assisting their mother with house chores. Florence came in third,  a very humble girl who was always with the mother and  when outside with others was never too engaged in playful activities. Winnie came in fourth,  Rose came in fifth and finally Douglas the last born. Their father Siro was a military officer who was always away from home because of his work. The mother was a hard working woman who was always with the children and took good care of them,  they loved  each other and always assisted each other,  they lived  happily.
P2	They lived happily as a family and when their father came from his duty he   always brought them gifts and made them even more happier. When the children performed well in school,  their father always  promised to take them to trips. One day Bongoye was on top of his class,  when the father came he bought him a bicycle and promised that they were going for a trip the following week.
P3	 When the day  eventually came,  they went to Masai Mara  national park, it was along journey away from home and took around four hours to reach there. When they arrived they were welcomed by the game rangers who directed them to safe places to rest before they embarked on the remaining part of the tour. In the game park they saw many wild animals that included; The king of the jungle; the lion,  elephants,  buffaloes, cheetahs,  leopards and many other wild animals. The peak of the day  was when they went to watch the wild beast migration.
P4	When it was time to go back home the whole family  was really tired and on the return journey all of  them were sleepy except for the  driver who for obvious reasons could not sleep. They arrived at home  very late and went to sleep. It was a beautiful gift the father gave to the family. All other members promised to work extremely hard so that they too could be the reason they did many other things the family enjoyed.  The following term  all the others improved in their grades     and were given different kinds of gifts by the parents.  They were also promised a trip to visit their grand parents the following holidays.

images:

illustrations/pages/15104.png
illustrations/pages/14735.png
illustrations/pages/13743.png
illustrations/pages/13750.png
illustrations/pages/15006.png

translations:

