url:	http://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=15747&d=0&a=1
id:	15747
title:	Sekuru Mkuku
author:	Blessing Nemadziva
artist:	Venolin Keanan Govender and Venolin Govender
lang:	Shona
level:	Read aloud
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/15747.png
desc:	Farai akashanyira mbuya nasekuru vake pazororo. Sekuru vake vakamudzidzisa nhoroondo yedzinza ravo. Vakamudzidzisazve kudetemba mutupo wavo weDziva. Mitupo chinhu chakakosha patsika dzechiShona. Vabereki vanodzidzisa vana vavo nezvemitupo yavo pavanenge vachikura.

page_text:

P1	Farai lived in the city of Harare. His parents told him that it was time to spend the holidays in the rural areas with his grandparents. His parents accompanied him to the bus stop. They were happy that their child was going to see his grandparents. Farai was not happy. He wanted to play with his friends in the city. When his parents waved at him,  he did not wave back. The bus was crowded and hot. The road was dusty and bumpy. Farai did not enjoy the journey.
P2	Mbuya and Sekuru were happy to see Farai. Mbuya slaughtered a hen for him. They sat in the kitchen during the evening. Mbuya cooked on a stove using firewood. The kitchen was hot. The smoke from the firewood blinded the eyes. But Mbuya and Sekuru were used to the smoke. Farai was tired and wanted to sleep.
P3	"No one sleeps without eating Mbuya Mkuku's chicken!" Mbuya demanded. "Nguruve yavata yavata nemuromo wayo," (a pig that has gone to sleep goes with its mouth) Sekuru Mkuku joked.  Mbuya finally finished cooking. Mbuya gave Farai a drumstick and a mountain of sadza. "If you eat more sadza you will be as big as Goliath," she said "But Goliath was beaten by David Mbuya," Farai replied. "Heheeede! Muzukuru wangu akangwara," laughed Mbuya,  "chidya zvako sadza rabikwa nambuya upedze" (my grandchild is clever,  now finish the sadza that granny has given you).
P4	Farai was happy because Mbuya said he was clever. He ate more sadza. He went to sleep with a full stomach. Farai slept on a reed mat on the floor. Mbuya spread a blanket on top of the mat. "Mbuya,  your bed is hard," Farai complained. "Don't worry muzukuru,  this is where your father slept when he was your age," Mbuya replied. "Good night muzukuru,  tomorrow you will go to herd cattle with the other boys."
P5	Mbuya woke Farai early. He was still sleepy. He joined the other boys from the village. They went to the pastures. The boys drove the cattle with sjamboks. The sjamboks were scary,  they sounded like gunfire. Herding cattle was hard. The village boys enjoyed it. Farai did not enjoy it. The sun was too hot. The cattle ran too fast. Farai missed his friends in the city. Farai missed watching cartoons.
P6	Towards sunset,  the boys took the cattle to the river to drink. The boys swam in the river. Farai enjoyed swimming. When they were tired,  they lay on the grass under the big Mutsamvi tree. The cattle also lay under the big Mutsamvi tree. Farai started telling the boys about his friends in the city. He told them about the cartoons and computer games. The boys were not interested. They wanted to talk about their family history. Farai did not know his family history. The boys jeered at him. Farai felt humiliated.
P7	That evening,  Farai implored Sekuru Mkuku to tell him about their history. "I will tell you after supper muzukuru," said Sekuru Mkuku. "Please Sekuru,  also tell me our praise poem," Farai begged Sekuru. "I will tell you everything after supper." Farai was excited. He wanted to hear his family history. Mbuya was happy.
P8	After supper,  Sekuru Mkuku began this story. "Long ago,  our great grandfather lived in Tanzania in a place called Guruuswa. His name was Dzivaguru. Dzivaguru and his family migrated to live near the Zambezi River. His sons were Nyamukoko,  Kaluba and Luvhimbi. His sons left the Zambezi because of the floods,  which destroyed their houses,  crops and cattle."
P9	"Our praise poem says: Maita Dziva,  sambiri. VeGanda gobvu,  ari KwaSave. Maita Mvuu,  chirombo chinobvundura mvura. Mutsikapanotinhira,  vematama. Maita mhukahuru,  chifurasora. Vakasarudza kutonhorerwa,  vakazivazve kuti mhepo yakanaka. Ndinotenda veMbire,  vabvi vekumabudazuva,  vehuchenjeri. Mukaregwandiani? Maita Save pakuru,  dziva vasingatambe nebukuta."
P10	Farai was happy. Farai wanted to tell his mother the family history. Farai wanted to tell his friends in the city his family history. Farai was now happy that he came to the village. Farai thanked his grandfather. He thanked Sekuru Mkuku saying,  "Maita Dziva,  sambiri. VeGanda gobvu. Vari KwaSave."  Sekuru Mkuku was happy. Mbuya Mkuku was happy.

images:

illustrations/pages/16589.png
illustrations/pages/16182.png
illustrations/pages/16180.png
illustrations/pages/16167.png
illustrations/pages/16168.png
illustrations/pages/16163.png
illustrations/pages/16171.png
illustrations/pages/16179.png
illustrations/pages/16157.png
illustrations/pages/16169.png
illustrations/pages/16155.png

translations:

