url:	http://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=18207&d=0&a=1
id:	18207
title:	Ada's Big Surprise
author:	Otin Babine
artist:	Marleen Visser and Google
lang:	English
level:	Longer paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution-Non Commercial 3.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/18207.png
desc:	Adas life changes when she meets Uncle Mike. He teaches her valuable life lessons and when she applies it

page_text:

P1	CHAPTER 1! THE STRANGE VISITOR Ada was upstairs reading a book when her father called her. "Adanna!" Ada's father called her. "Yes papa" Ada said and ran to her father. Her mother sat down in front of a tall man. Ada wondered who he was. "Ada this is Mr Mike your new lesson teacher" her mother said. "But mummy,  I don't want a lesson teacher now" she cried. "My friend will you greet Mr Mike! I did not raise you to be disrespectful Ada!" Ada bent her head in shame and greeted Mr Mike."Beautiful Ada. Don't worry,  I give out chocolates for every assignment that you get hundred percent in" Mr Mike said. Ada's face lit up as she heard chocolates. She loved chocolates! "Uncle when can we start?"
P2	Everyone laughed at Ada's enthusiasm over chocolates. "Take Mr Mike to the dining table and bring out your books." Ada ran upstairs and returned with her books. She couldn't wait to get chocolates. She hoped uncle Mike brought some chocolate because she knew she was going to get hundred percent!Ada and uncle Mike started with a spelling bee. She got ninety percent because she couldn't spell Excited. Ada cried and cried because she missed one letter! Just one letter and uncle Mike refused to give her Mars bars - her favorite after showing her. She spelt it as E-X-I-T-E-D instead of E-X-C-I-T-E-D.
P3	        Ada promised herself that she would never fail any word again- especially excited. It was engraved in her heart. Soon,  it was six o'clock and uncle Mike had to leave. Ada reluctantly told him bye. She couldn't wait for their next lesson.
P4	CHAPTER 2! ADA DISCOVERS A NEW LOVE. The next day,  Ada's mum entered her room and asked her what she was doing. "Mummy I'm learning new words so that I can get hundred percent when uncle Mike comes' on Friday" Ada said. "Never learn because of chocolates my dear. Learn because you love learning" Ada's mother told her. Her mother's words touched her so much that all week,  Ada ignored all her cartoons and read till she knew she was ready for Uncle Mike's questions. Ada did many sums and she was happy when her mum marked her sums and told her that she got everything. She discovered that she felt happy whenever she got her sums and spellings right.
P5	                                                           Ada promised herself that she would never fail any sum or spelling again so she could feel happy every time. She even stopped going to Nkechi- her best friend's house so as not to be distracted. Ada fell in love with learning!
P6	                                                CHAPTER 3!                      ADA LEARNS A BIG LESSON Ada kept staring at the clock in her class  till it was closing time. Ada was so distracted that when her class teacher called her asked her a question,  Nkechi had to tap her before she heard.  Everyone wondered what happened to Ada. They did not know that she didn't enjoy learning with them again since she had uncle Mike. She already knew what the teacher was teaching so she didn't care. Immediately Senior Tola in basic five rang the bell,  Ada ran to the car park where Uncle Solo her mummy's driver was waiting.
P7	"Ada how was school" her mummy asked her when she got home. "Mummy school was fine" She answered distractedly and kept looking at the clock. "Why do you keep looking at the clock ehn nwam?" Her mummy asked her affectionately calling her a pet name. "Mummy it's because" "Wait I know! You want to watch that your new cartoon with Nkechi? Finish your food first then you can go!" her mummy interrupted her.
P8	 "No mummy,  It's not that. I don't have time to play with Nkechi or watch cartoons. I am waiting for Uncle  Mike" Ada said. "Ehn? Nwam no! Never say that again. Nkechi is your best friend and you love cartoons. Don't try to grow old before your time okay? You must always have time for friends" Her mum said. "But mummy!  If I watch cartoons,  I would not want to learn" "Says who?" her mummy asked. "That's what you and daddy said! Is that not why you got me a  lesson teacher?" Ada asked.
P9	Ada's mummy laughed. Ada was such a wise child for her age. "Always do things in moderation Ada" Her mummy said to her. "Mummy what's modwashom?" Ada asked. She had never heard the word before. "Moderation just means doing things in small quantities." her mummy told her. "Okay mummy so I should read small small and still play?" "YES! Uncle Mike is coming by four. You can go to Nkechi's house to play. I'll call you when he has come." Ada ran to Nkechi's house. Nkechi was happy to see her and Ada realized that she had missed her best-friend- and cartoons too.
P10	                                           CHAPTER 4!                                               IT IS OKAY TO FAIL Uncle Mike and Ada were at the dining table having lesson. Ada was trying to spell a word that Uncle Mike had taught her. The word wasn't in any of the story books that she had read.  Ada felt very sad. "Time's up!" uncle Mike said and collected her paper. He had given Ada thirty words to spell after she had bragged about how many words she knew. Uncle Mike told  Ada that she failed three words. Ada could not believe that she failed a whole three spellings after she read everything in her story books!
P11	Uncle Mike offered her chocolate but she refused. He asked her why she didn't want the chocolate. "My mummy said that I shouldn't learn because of chocolate. I read because I was enjoying it" Ada said to uncle Mike. "Then why are you crying Ada?' he asked Ada. "Because I failed! I don't like failing!" Ada cried. "The beauty of learning is making mistakes and learning from your mistakes" he said to Ada. "So I should be failing?" Ada asked him. "No Ada. Do your best to get everything but don't be afraid or angry if you fail okay?" Uncle Mike said " Yes uncle Mike" Ada said. Ada got all her sums in mathematics and got the Mars bars. This time,  she took it because she deserved it."
P12	                    CHAPTER 5                                         ADA'S BIG SURPRISE      One term had passed since Ada had learnt that it was okay to fail. She was on Christmas holiday. Ada was excited to know what her parents were going to buy her for Christmas! She had already gotten dresses but her parents always bought her things on Christmas day. She was watching "loony tunes" in her mummy's room when her daddy called her downstairs. She reluctantly got up and went downstairs. In her sitting room,  she saw Uncle Mike and her mummy talking. "Uncle Mike" she shouted. Ada ran to uncle Mike and hugged him. "How are you Ada?" he asked her. "I'm fine uncle Mike. How are you?" she asked uncle Mike. "I am good my dear" he said.  Ada spotted a cake and asked her mummy whose cake it was. "Ada come and sit on my laps" her dad said. Ada ran to his laps and sat on them. Her daddy gave her a paper. "Do you know what this is?" " No daddy."
P13	"Ada nwam. Adanna. This is your result. You were first position. This cake is for you" Ada jumped up and hugged her parents. She thanked them and thanked Uncle Mike for helping her. "No Ada,  you did it all by yourself. Keep it up" "Yes,  Ada keep it up and you'll get more presents" "When can we cut the cake?" "NOW! Go and bring a knife for me my dear so I can give Uncle Mike small" Ada ran happily to the kitchen. She had gotten first and she didn't have to stop watching cartoons or talking to Nkechi. She felt like a princess. She was Princess Ada! END.
P14	MORAL LESSONS: Work hard and you will definitely excel. Never abandon your friends. It is okay to fail because nobody is perfect.
P15	NEW WORDS AND THEIR MEANINGS: 1. Wondered:       To be curious about something is to "wonder" about it. 2. Enthusiasm:     To be eager or excited about something is to be "enthusiastic" about it. 3. Engraved:    To put something deep inside another thing is to "engrave" it in something so that it can never leave and you can never forget it. 4. Staring:    Looking at something for a long time is to "stare" at it. 5. Interrupted:   To stop something or stop someone from talking or doing something is to  "interrupt"  it/them. 6. Moderation:   To do things in small quantities. 7. Deserved:   To deserve something is to rightfully earn it. That means that you got what you were meant to  get  because of what you did.

images:

illustrations/pages/18204.png
illustrations/pages/15722.png
illustrations/pages/18227.png

translations:

