url:	http://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=1890&d=0&a=1
id:	1890
title:	Tselane and the Giant
author:	Lorato Trok
artist:	Catherine Groenewald
lang:	English
level:	Longer paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 3.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/1890.png
desc:	After Tselane’s father died her mother wanted them to move to another village to start a new life. But Tselane didnt want to go

page_text:

P1	Once upon a time there was a little girl called Tselane. After her father died,  she lived alone with her mother. One day her mother decided that they would move to another village to start a new life. Tselane did not want to leave her old village and she started to cry.
P2	Her mother was scared to leave her daughter alone because giants lived in the caves nearby that village. But Tselane cried so much that her mother finally agreed that she could stay behind.
P3	Tselane's mother told her that she would bring food every day. She said,  "I will sing a song so that you know it's me. Don't open the door for anyone else,  my child." She sang the song: "Tselane my child! Tselane my child! Come out and eat your porridge! Come out and eat your porridge!"
P4	The next morning Tselane's mother came to the house with food. She sang their special song. Tselane opened the door and took her mother's delicious food. Then her mother kissed her and went back to her new home.
P5	A giant was hiding in the bushes,  watching and listening to Tselane and her mother! After Tselane switched off her light that night,  she heard a deep voice singing her mother's song outside the door. "Tselane my child! Come out and eat your porridge!" sang the giant. "Go away! You are not my mother! You are a giant!" shouted Tselane.
P6	The giant walked away disappointed and disappeared into the caves. Every morning and every evening,  Tselane's mother brought her food. Every morning and every evening,  the giant also came. But each time Tselane sent him away. She recognised his deep voice as he sang her mother's song.
P7	One day the giant had an idea. "I can change my voice to resemble that of Tselane's mother!" he said to himself. He made a fire and threw a round smooth stone into the flames. When the stone was very hot and red,  he took it out of the fire and swallowed it! "Kudutlu!" went the hot stone down the throat of the giant.
P8	The giant started singing. He jumped for joy when he heard his voice sounding as sweet as that of Tselane's mother! Early the next day,  the giant went to Tselane's house early in the morning. When he got to the door of the house,  he sang: "Tselane my child! Tselane my child! Come out and eat your porridge! Come out and eat your porridge!"
P9	Tselane was excited to hear her mother's voice. She opened the door,  and there was the giant! She tried to close the door but the giant was too quick. He grabbed Tselane and threw her into a sack.
P10	The happy giant walked back to his cave."What a beautiful day! If only I had traditional beer,  it would go so well with my dinner tonight," he said to himself.
P11	A little later in the morning,  Tselane's mother came as usual to bring her daughter food. She sang her song,  but Tselane did not come out. She sang her song again,  but still Tselane did not come out. After singing for the third time,  she kicked the door open. Tselane was nowhere to be found. Her mother realised what had happened,  and she quickly made a plan.
P12	She poured some beer into a big calabash,  put it on her head,  and walked down to the caves. "Good evening,  giant!" called Tselane's mother. The giant smelled the delicious smell of traditional beer and opened the door. Tselane's mother said,  "I was passing through and I heard you singing so beautifully. I am on my way to another village for a party."
P13	"Let me pour you some beer before I continue on my journey," said Tselane's mother. The giant was not going to let the opportunity of drinking traditional beer pass him by! He invited Tselane's mother into his cave. The giant drank the beer in one great gulp. Tselane's mother gave him more and more – and more – until the calabash was empty.  The giant was soon so drunk that he fell asleep on the floor.
P14	As soon as Tselane's mother heard the giant's loud snores,  she opened the sack lying in the cave. Tselane jumped out of the sack,  and they ran home as fast as they could. From then on Tselane stayed with her mother at the new village. They lived happily and were never again bothered by giants.

images:

illustrations/pages/1532.png
illustrations/pages/1533.png
illustrations/pages/1534.png
illustrations/pages/1535.png
illustrations/pages/1536.png
illustrations/pages/1532.png
illustrations/pages/1537.png
illustrations/pages/1538.png
illustrations/pages/1539.png
illustrations/pages/1540.png
illustrations/pages/1541.png
illustrations/pages/1542.png
illustrations/pages/1543.png
illustrations/pages/1544.png
illustrations/pages/1545.png

translations:

French (Translation)	Tselane Et Le Giant	id=9964
French (Adaptation)	Tselane Et Le Géant	id=16200
Fulfulde (Translation)	Teselan E Jiyan	id=10027
Hausa (Translation)	Tselane Da Ƙato	id=9995
isiXhosa (Translation)	Utselane Nesigebenga	id=1975
Kanuri (Translation)	Kawa-a Sedan Kura-A	id=10089
Sesotho (Lesotho) (Translation)	Tselane Le Limo	id=1972
Setswana (Translation)	Tselane Le Dimo	id=1974
Zarma (Translation)	Tasalla Nda Gorza	id=10109
