url:	http://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=19416&d=0&a=1
id:	19416
title:	Wasps and Beetles
author:	Asuru  Stella Onsure
artist:	Wiehan de Jager, Kathy Arbuckle and Benjamin Mitchley
lang:	English
level:	Longer paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/19416.png
desc:	This is a story of growing up in Uganda as a young adolescent.

page_text:

P1	Many funny things happened to me in my childhood; some good,  others bad; some annoying and others pleasing. They mainly occurred when l was away from home because l spent most of my time in the bushes. We had a group of five girls; Tina,  the big one,  Yesko the youngest,  Munduru,  Aseru,  and Aseru almost the same size. We would go out daily swimming,  climbing trees,  eating wild fruits,  sliding on the rocks,  wrestling our opponents and playing other games as well. It was a Saturday when we sat for a brief meeting. In that meeting,  all the group members agreed that we should go in to the forest in the morning hours the following day. Morning broke,  and each and everyone was busy sweeping,  washing utensils,  preparing breakfast and arranging furniture in the house. Mum and Aunt Okucia prepared breakfast. As soon as we took breakfast,  everyone went for prayers in Aripe Chapel.
P2	The big brothers and sisters,  aunt,  daddy,  mummy and little ones were attentively praying. For us we sneaked smartly out one after another. As we hurried back home,  we would look back quickly and frequently to check if someone was following. As soon as we reached home,  we changed in to our playing attires. Mummy followed us home,  she observed us enjoying our ideas and the new dressing through half opened door. "Eee! Why are saving time to go and collect firewood," replied Munduru. "Go back to the church. You will go for firewood when service is over," she commanded. "Oh no! The sun heat will be strong. We shall collect very little firewood. Even the catechist will pray for long; we won't understand him!" Asuru complained,  "Please! Let us go for firewood now because tomorrow we shall be at school. We need to have enough for today and some other days," Tina added.
P3	Mum left us. We took off happily to the forest. While there,  we rolled on the rocks,  sliding on the hillside of Ngilikua and ate wild fruits of elipaku,  ecuki,  ngulungulu and lugba. A variety of activities took place most of our time. After swimming enough,  we had very red skin and felt hungry. We sat on the rocks to sun bathe. Suddenly,  Tina shouted,  "It is getting late. The sun is getting down. What shall we take home?" We all looked round. There was in fact no firewood to collect. We had by then collected very little. Shortly l saw a giant tree with thick leaves and many dry branches. I thought to myself,  if l could climb,   would have something to take home. Moving nearer to the tree,  my friends followed. suggested that we make holes using stones on the trunk so that we could get up to the branches.
P4	Cooperatively,  we made holes for stepping. We climbed one after the other. Others fell back after several moments. After serious struggles,  Tina pushed me by my buttocks and l climbed,  munduru and Tina followed respectively as Yesko and Aseru waited down pointing for us at the needed branches saying, "That one,  there is another one there." Suddenly,  as we collected the branches,  we came into contract with clusters of wasps and beetles. "Wiii,  wiii,  woo wuwu,  zii,  ziii," they sounded. Munduru landed her left arm on a cluster. Taa, Taa they stung us. Each one had to fend for herself,  we all jumped down quickly. Some were crying,  some shouting and yet none of us got serious injuries,  Yesko and Aseru laughed with tears after they had run away temporarily.
P5	Lonzinoa a cattle keeper rushed to help. He brought some leaves,  crushed them,  and smeared them on the sting marks on our skin. He then ordered us to go straight home. Moving for just a short distance,  Aseru reminded us on what to tell mum. We unanimously agreed that the first statement would be final,  Mum saw us from a distance."Who are those coming towards our home? Are these those stupid girls of ours? Look at them," mum said. We all kept quiet. Tina started explaining,  "Mum you know" "Know what!" Mum interrupted. "Mum,  in fact," Tina continued. "We had collected a lot of firewood,  but cowboys came by and they grabbed all our firewood and went away. Secondly,  kuu(a certain old woman) claimed that we had collected her fence; she was angry with us and called for some big girls. Those girls took our firewood to her home. We cried in vain. The little that we have managed to bring home is what we kept away from the path way."
P6	"Shut up,  you liar," Mum summoned."Take these where you want to. Ididn't marry to cook with your firewood. Come tomorrow,  you must go out again. I won't allow you home until you do." We threw the small bundles,  sat at the veranda and waited for her sympathy,  looking down and picking nothing from the sand. "Sure girls,  come for food if you want. After all,  you went with your kitchen in the bush," Mum invited us. We first rubbed our hands on our skirts and then washed our hands. We ate the wrongly measured supper without saying thank you mum. "We have finished eating," Stella said. "Go away," said Mum. We tiptoed out of her sight. We had to sleep in the kitchen as a punishment. From that day I have not climbed huge trees. I don't even waste much time with friends especially when I have some duty at home.

images:

illustrations/pages/5709.png
illustrations/pages/1307.png
illustrations/pages/13501.png
illustrations/pages/16539.png
illustrations/pages/6591.png

translations:

