url:	http://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=19419&d=0&a=1
id:	19419
title:	The Talking Bones
author:	Bako Jane
artist:	Wiehan de Jager, Thompson Namukaba, cartoonghost.org and teachers from West Nile
lang:	English
level:	Longer paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/19419.png
desc:	This story is a written by a P6 teacher about her life as a young adolescent in the village.

page_text:

P1	Could bones talk? In 1996 during the gorilla war in Morobo,  many people lost their lives; houses where burnt and a thousand people were displaced to camps.  After some weeks of serious gun shots,  we felt it was a bit safe to come back to our homes. When we returned home from the camps,  together with my friends Candiru,  Ezayo,  Odaru,  we went to collect firewood across the borderline on the Congo side. While collecting,  we took different routes. Ezayo and I went together as Candiru and Odaru did. Reaching the thickest part of the forest,  where animals and birds rest on sunny days,  Ezayo saw some long thin bones,  white in color scattered on the grounds.
P2	She shouted,  "Oh,  it's a miracle. Jane,  come and see."  I quickly ran toward her. Indeed the bones were attractive. We called the two other girls to see the bones as well and we joyfully jumped like a bouncing ball saying,  "We have got bones for playing our traditional game called 'olokosoa'." Odaru asked,  "How are you going to carry them?" Candiru replied,  "We should tie them in a bundle of firewood." Each of us picked a bone and tied it in a bundle of firewood.
P3	Arriving home,  we took the bones inside the corner of our house and started preparing supper together with our mother. After taking our supper prepared out of dried potatoes called "mutere" mixed with beans and paste to form "o'yoo",  we went to sleep. In those days,  girls used to sleep in groups in the house called "odrujo" (the house of buffaloes).
P4	Approaching midnight,  Odaru heard a person talking in the room,  "Konk,  konk,  konk," and talking in Kiswahili language. "Shadiamimi,  shadiamimi_ miminarudi." Meaning,  "Help me,  Help me,  I want to go." As the voice grew louder and louder strangely,  Odaru had to wake us from a deep sleep and lit a lamp and the voice stopped. Having put off the light,  we heard the person walking in the room again; konk,  konk,  konk,  while talking in a very loud voice,  "Shadiamimi,  shadiamimi-miminarudi."
P5	We all took off on toes while crying and screaming towards our parents. Our parents came out well equipped with pangas,  knives,  spears,  bows and arrows to attack the stranger. Reaching the house,  nothing was seen but the bones in the corner.
P6	My parents asked many questions. "Who brought the bones into the house?" "Where did you get the bones from?" "What are they used for?" We all kept quiet like graves. My father was annoyed and shouted,  "Stupid children,  don't you know that these are bones of human beings?"
P7	Have you forgotten about the rebel war whereby some corpses were buried and others were not? You must take the bones back to their particular place where you picked them from to avoid more troubles." We were so threatened that we did not complete the night in our house. Early in the morning we took the bones back to their particular place in the forest. After returning,  our parents advised us to stop picking things. From that time on I learned a never to pick things which don't belong to me."

images:

illustrations/pages/5827.png
illustrations/pages/19826.png
illustrations/pages/19821.png
illustrations/pages/6244.png
illustrations/pages/19840.png
illustrations/pages/19819.png
illustrations/pages/5592.png

translations:

