url:	http://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=19561&d=0&a=1
id:	19561
title:	Fruits of Uhuru
author:	Rose Mburu
artist:	Catherine Groenewald
lang:	English
level:	Longer paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/19561.png
desc:	A village sets out to find independence.

page_text:

P1	Wamaitha and her grandchildren sat outside her house. The children were excited because they really enjoyed listening to their grandmother's stories. Wamaitha began,  "Long,  long ago." She paused and looked at her grandchildren's faces glow with curiosity.
P2	Wamaitha continued to tell the story: "In the early 1960s beyond the hills and valleys was a village called Mongu. For years,  it had been invaded by people from Kitwe village. The people in Mongu were forced to work for long hours with little pay. All they produced was taken to Kitwe village. The little that remained was sold to members of Mongu village at high prices."
P3	One night in 1963,  the people of Mongu held a secret meeting with the consent of their masters from Kitwe. They had decided enough was enough and wanted  back their land. They sat and began to weigh the odds of them winning. They knew  Kitwe had a strong army and better weapons. They began to put ideas across but time flew fast and they had no solution. Just as they were about to give up,  a young man stood up and said,  "I think I know a way."
P4	They were all curious and asked,  "Tell us!" The young man began,  "My grandfather told us about a man named Ubuntu who lives across the forest. He grows a fruit called Uhuru which gives people strength to do anything. Let us find this man." They were all silent and did not know what to do. Since no one else had a better idea,  they said,  "You go and find this Ubuntu."
P5	The young man set out to find Ubuntu. After five days of going through the forest he came across big house. He was very happy.  He found an elderly man. The man asked,  "What do you want?"  The young man answered,  "I want Uhuru." Immediately he said that,  the man's eyes grew bigger. It was so long since anyone had gone in search of the fruit.
P6	They talked for a long time. Ubuntu decided to give the young man the Uhuru fruit. He said,  "Listen carefully. Once you eat this fruit you will acquire wisdom and knowledge which will help you to lead your people to independence. This fruit will make you the leader of your people. Rule them with humility." He handed a fruit in the shape of a grape and added,  "Follow my instructions and your land will prosper. Now, go and tell no one about me.''
P7	The young man went back to Mongu. Just as the old man had said,  they were able to chase the people of Kitwe away and get back their land.   A celebration was held in the whole land. The young man was praised for his courage. He became the first King of Mongu village. As king,  he was wise enough to rule his people well. He served them with humility and considered them in every action he took." THE END."
P8	Wamaitha said:   My dear grandchildren,  the fruit of Uhuru (freedom) comes to each one of us at a given point. Be wise enough to use it well. Remember your actions do not only affect you but everyone around you."  Satisfied and happy,  the grandchildren went into the house. Wamaitha sat back and watched them go. She hoped the stories she told them every day would build them into better people and leaders for tomorrow."

images:

illustrations/pages/18819.png
illustrations/pages/18819.png
illustrations/pages/17219.png
illustrations/pages/10619.png
illustrations/pages/10620.png
illustrations/pages/18138.png
illustrations/pages/17997.png
illustrations/pages/2462.png
illustrations/pages/18842.png

translations:

English (Adaptation)	Fruits of Freedom	id=19885
Lusoga (Translation)	Ebibala Bye Eidembe	id=21286
