url:	http://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=22177&d=0&a=1
id:	22177
title:	Abla
author:	Seundede Kubeyinje
artist:	Wiehan de Jager and Felicity Bell
lang:	English
level:	Longer paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/22177.png
desc:	Abla stands for what she believes in despite opposition!

page_text:

P1	There was a girl named Abla. She prayed to Allah to prevent her period from coming because she knew she would have to get married. 

Abla didn't want to get married. In fact, she liked reading her brother's school notes a lot!
P2	When her period came, she cried and tried to hide it from her father. Her father found out and was very happy because there was a rich man who wanted to marry Abla. 

She begged him not to send her to her husband's house at such an early age, but her father did not agree.
P3	He asked her what she wanted to do and she told him she wanted to go to school like her brother Ibrahim. Her father laughed at her.
P4	"Why do you want to go to school?" he asked her.

"Baba, I like reading Ibra's notes and I'm sure I'll do well if you allow me join school too."

"Of what use is education to you?" he asked her.
P5	"Why does Ibrahim go to school then?"

"He is a man!"

"Baba, am I not your child too?"
P6	"Ableluwa, you are my daughter. Alhaji Musa is a very rich man! He'll give you everything you need."

"Baba I don't want his money! I want to go to school!"

"You will marry him before your next period," her father said and walked out.
P7	That afternoon, on her way to the market, Abla read a pamphlet from a Non-Governmental Organization that encouraged girls to go to school. 

Luckily for her, their address was near the market, so she went there and told them everything. They took interest in her case and got her a lawyer who threatened to charge her father in court if he didn't allow her to go to school.

 The lawyer also made sure she wasn't forced into marriage.
P8	Abla was able to go to school where she was top of her class and got scholarships until Law school. 

Her father was very proud of her and remorseful for almost thwarting her destiny.
P9	Today, Abla is a Human Rights Activist who helps young girls in the same situation that she was in. 

She wants every girl to know that she is just as important as any boy.
P10	Abla wants you to find a way to get help. There are many organizations that are willing to help. Ask an adult you can trust.  She wants you to know that you don't have to get married at such a young age!

No matter what, NEVER GIVE UP ON YOUR DREAMS
P11	Difficult words:
1. Period: Menstruation — aka having your period — is when blood and tissue from your uterus comes out of your vagina. It usually happens once every month. Don't be scared when it does! It's normal! Make sure you DON"T USE TISSUE! Get a sanitary pad
P12	2. Nongovernmental Organization: An organization that operates independently of any government, typically one whose purpose is to address a social or political issue. They are always willing to help you. You can call anyone of them when you need help.
P13	3. Cause: A movement to which one is committed and which one is prepared to defend or advocate.
P14	4. Pamphlet: a paper with thought- provoking information written on it.
P15	5. Human Rights Activist: A person who ensures human rights are not violated. They are there to help you!
P16	6. Remorseful: To be sorry for a wrongdoing.
P17	7. Thwarting: To prevent from achieving a goal. Don't let anyone successfully do this to you!
P18	8. Destiny: Things that will happen in the future to someone. Make no mistakes, you are in control of your destiny! As a Queen and neither inferior nor superior being, you can take your destiny in your hands!
P19	9.  Inferior:

10. Superior:

I want you to check out the meaning of those words. Hint: use a dictionary (a big book filled with words and their meanings).
P20	Remember: You are not inferior! You are not superior in relation to your fellow human either. We are all equal!

images:

illustrations/pages/6093.png
illustrations/pages/933.png

translations:

