url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=22561&d=0&a=1
id:	22561
title:	The Dreamer girl
author:	BEZAWORK HAILESELASSIE
artist:	Vusi Malindi
lang:	English
level:	Longer paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	https://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/22561.png
desc:	One day she saw a beautiful dream. A dream that changed her life. A dream that whispered in her ears the other dreams were dreams werent mere dreams they are compiled in to one humongous amazing dream and that dream shall soon be her life.

page_text:

P1	Once upon a time, there was a girl named SOFIA who lived in the outskirts of Vodoria. She was a very beautiful girl. And oh she loved animals. She captured the heart of many prince. Many came bearing gifts for her parents. They asked her parents to give her hand in marriage.  But as it is not custom  to marry from a different class her parents knew it will create big trouble for them
P2	Sofia dream was to be the hero for Vodoria. Her dreams were bigger than a mountain. Her heart stronger than an elephant's. She aspired and determined to be the best woman who ever lived. And bring peace to Vodoria

Her mother was a costermonger and her father was a carpenter. They were living hand to mouth. And the people around them lived no different.
P3	The reason was the king made them pay high taxes.The king was a selfish man who only cared about himself and no other.He had rivals and there was war that was going on all the time and the people were tired of fighting for him and losing their loved ones
P4	One among many decided to have a stand on the issue. His name was Thesias
Enough is enough He said
All this bloodshed for nothing
We have to overcome Our fears
and fight this cold blooded king
Another man said  "What of the prophecy? "
P5	"What of the prophecy? Years has gone bye He replied
No show of the boy. The Machillian dynasty has for ages ruled
The great priest said the boy will rescue us all
Him on our side we will never fall
But i say we atleast fight our own war
Than go offshore fighting another war
Who is with me show your hands
And justice we shall demand
P6	As the gathered people were sick and tired of the situation. They decided to join the rebellion group. Thesis continued
The Agellion kingdom won't help us, but the Agrain should
Our forefathers were of the same blood
The prophecy says for us that it won't end well
 the prophecy says the boy is vital
But let's see if we could bet the odds
And make the win ours
We shan't be fearful
As we are dying even now for another man's cause
What could be worse
P7	Sofia heard what has been said.  She went home. She lay down on the bed she fall asleep and had the dream. The dream is no ordinary dream. 
Three people had the dream in the history of Vodoria. One was Thunkus who had the dream in the olden days before Vodoria was Vodoria. People were suffering during that time because the land was not giving any vegetable or fruits. That was when they were in the land of Sodoria. They felt like they were trapped in hunger.
P8	Then Thunkus  had the dream. In his dream the mighty man said they should build a ship and cross over the sea and they will find the hidden island of Vodoria. People didn't believe him at first. But as they had no other solution to the problem they have, they decided to participate in building the ship he has instructed to build. It was better than waiting to die of hunger. After the making of the ship is done. All man, woman  children and animals boarded the ship.
P9	They sailed for 7 days and 7 nights. They couldn't find the promised island and they even gave up hope

"We followed you as you suggested"
"We have searched everywhere
We are sure we haven't missed it
We are running out of water and food  
What is the solution where is the land
P10	They got aggressive.Even Thunkus himself lost hope.  "but the dream was like no other dream he said". Then the island of  Vodoria appeared out of nowhere. The island was like no other. It was beautiful and peaceful.People were happy. Thunkus was happy
P11	ILLustrator needed. please contact me at @afroismystyle instagram

images:

illustrations/pages/7518.png

translations:

