url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=22599&d=0&a=1
id:	22599
title:	The prince who had no name
author:	Kaka Gana Abba
artist:	Awwalu  Sakiwa
lang:	English
level:	Longer paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	https://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/22599.png
desc:	The story is about a prince who was not given a name at birth. (This story was created at a Story Making Workshop in Abuja

page_text:

P1	Once upon a time, there lived a prince who had no name from birth. He was the only child of King Dunoma, who wanted a successor. He was born after several years of waiting. 

When he was born, the king was so happy that he decided to keep his son's name a secret until he grew up. Then, any girl who knew the name would become the prince's wife.
P2	When the prince was old enough to marry, the king ordered the town crier to make an announcement.

"This is a contest for young women throughout the kingdom! Say the prince's name and become his wife!" announced the town crier.
P3	The girls devoted the remaining days to preparation. They plaited their hair and trimmed their nails. They decorated their hands and feet with henna, and went to the tailor for new dresses. 

Some even visited the marabout for prayers and good luck. The impatient among them visited the diviners to tell them about their fate.
P4	On the appointed day, all roads led to the king's palace. The prince and his father, accompanied by the palace guards, arrived at the assembly ground first. 

The young women in their beautiful dresses walked humbly towards the palace.
P5	Everything was set. The town crier announced the commencement of the event. Each girl would step forward and say three names. 

If she was lucky, the event would come to an end. Otherwise, another girl would step forward.
P6	The first girl stepped forward and said, "Is it Modu? Is it Mommodu? Is it Mattaa?"  

The prince said, "You have not got it my sister. You have not got it right."
P7	The second girl stepped forward and said, "Is it Bukar? Is it Umar? Is it Usman?"

The Prince said, "You have not got it my sister. You have not got it right."
P8	The third girl stepped forward and said, "Is it Ali? Is it Zubair? Is it Abba?" 

Then the prince said, "You have not got it my sister. You have not got it right." 

The event continued for days but there was no winner. The town crier announced an extension.
P9	There was one girl who was encouraged by her mother to participate. When she left, her mother wished her good luck.

On her way, she found an old woman sitting alone. She greeted her and asked the old woman if she had a problem. 

She replied, "I am waiting here for someone to plait my hair. All the girls refuse to stop. They have no time for me."
P10	The girl comforted the old woman and plaited her hair. The old woman asked, "My child, where are you going?" 

She answered, "Nobody knows the prince's name except his father. Whoever knows his name will become his wife." 

The old woman said, "The prince's name is Tatasko."
P11	The girl thanked the old woman and left for the venue. When she arrived, she was surprised to see such a large gathering. She felt shy and could not go forward. 

Then she thought, "This is my only chance." She stepped forward. 

Other girls bullied her. But the prince intervened and she was allowed to participate.
P12	She stepped forward and began, "Is it Ibrahim? Is it Kassim? Is it Kagu?" The prince said, "You have not got it my sister."  

She said, "l know the name but l am afraid." The Prince encouraged her to speak.  She continued, "Is it Tatasko?" The prince exclaimed, "You have got it right!" 

People from far and near attended the celebrations and they lived happily ever after.

images:

illustrations/pages/26559.png
illustrations/pages/26559.png
illustrations/pages/26560.png
illustrations/pages/26561.png
illustrations/pages/26562.png
illustrations/pages/26563.png
illustrations/pages/26564.png
illustrations/pages/26565.png
illustrations/pages/26566.png
illustrations/pages/26567.png
illustrations/pages/26568.png
illustrations/pages/26569.png
illustrations/pages/26570.png

translations:

Kanuri (Original)	Maina su baa	id=22581
