url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=32219&d=0&a=1
id:	32219
title:	Mbakôron's Legacy
author:	Terkule Aorabee
artist:	Karlien de Villiers and Marike le Roux
lang:	English
level:	Read aloud
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/32219.png
desc:	The inspiring story of Helen Mbakôron and her dream to instill a love for reading and learning in the children of Nigeria and the rest of Africa. What will this book inspire you to do?

page_text:

P1	Mbakôron was born in a small village of Tacha Kpav in Katsina Ala Local Government. Her father died before she was six months old. Her mother dreamed of giving her and the other children better opportunities. But they did not have a good school.
P2	On his death bed, Ihom, her father made the family members promise him that Mbakôron would be given every opportunity to go to a good school. He knew she would be a great woman if she would be educated. There were good schools far away from the village and other villagers had sent their children there to learn.
P3	Mbakôron was a blessing to the family. She was bold and beautiful and loved helping her mother at work. The mother and other members of the family loved her so much. But they had little money. She went to live with her aunt in Yola when she was two years old. Her aunt  got her illustrated books and taught her how to read them when she started school.
P4	Mbakôron worked hard at the as a teenager and excelled in everything. She was made the Head Prefect of the School.She also won many prizes at school. she was the Best Behaved Girl of her graduating year.She got a scholarship to attend William Muckle Bristow Secondary School Gboko, the Missionary school with good teachers and facilities. She was delighted. Her mother was overwhelmed with joy. Mbakôron dreamed of becoming a teacher so as to help many other children in Tacha and Nigeria.
P5	Mbakôron did her best and excelled again at Bristow. She was again made the Female Head Prefect in her final year. She won another scholarship to study at Benue State University, Makurdi. She was very happy but still remembered the other children who were poor without education. She knew the government was doing very little to help the children of the poor get quality education. this made her very sad.
P6	Most schools in the villages had no classrooms. Pupils learned under tree sheds. They had no books and only those who had rich parents could afford to go to the cities to learn. She hoped to change the situation if she worked with the friends she made in school. Together, they would  use their skills and friendship to help the children.
P7	Finally she graduated from school. She was very happy. Her friends and well wishers celebrated her on return to the village. She wrote a proposal and  won a grant to start a school in Jalingo.
P8	She got married to a man who loved education and had been teaching at various schools in the city. Together, the discussed the plight of children without education.
P9	Mbakôron and her husband set out to make sure that there were good schools in every village. They mobilized their friends to form cooperatives to start schools in every city and pool resources to fund education for poor children. There were so many children who could not read. She encouraged her friends to start up primary schools and lay a solid foundation for the children. Putting books into the children's hands was her priority.
P10	Mbakôron and Her husband shared the dream of giving quality education for their own family and for the people of Nigeria. They were happy and hopeful.
P11	Mbakôron  and her husband had four children. Then, one terrible Wednesday, Mbakôron died during childbirth.The whole community was thrown into great mourning.
P12	Helena Heritage Academy, Jalingo was set up by her husband and friends with the grant she had won. Her husband and friends ensured that her dream did not die. Children were given books made available by African Storybook Initiative. A memorial Library was also set up to ensure that all children had access to quality books.

images:

illustrations/pages/8850.png
illustrations/pages/8852.png
illustrations/pages/8853.png
illustrations/pages/8854.png
illustrations/pages/8855.png
illustrations/pages/8856.png
illustrations/pages/8857.png
illustrations/pages/8858.png
illustrations/pages/8859.png
illustrations/pages/8860.png
illustrations/pages/8861.png
illustrations/pages/8862.png
illustrations/pages/8863.png

translations:

English (Original)	Graca's dream	id=8869
Kiswahili (Translation)	Ndoto ya Graca	id=9684
Lusoga (Translation)	Ekirooto  kya  Guligula	id=30864
Lusoga (Translation)	Ekiroto kya Kisakye	id=31066
