url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=32386&d=0&a=1
id:	32386
title:	New hope
author:	Naruto Uzumaki
artist:	Idowu Abayomi Oluwasegun, Rebecca Riley and Catherine Groenewald
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/32386.png
desc:	When a village is leaving peacefully they are attacked by bad people who try and take everything from them. A boy finds a secret about him self and he has to save the village.

page_text:

P1	Once open a time there was a boy named Noah who loved his family and playing football he was a only child he was by himself but he liked it like that. Noah went to school and his best friends name was Joseph hand they all ways had fun even though people bullied Noah he still had his best friend.
P2	One day Joseph came to Noah's house for a play date and they went outside to play soccer. Later they heard a sound it went scazzzzzzzzz they were scared and they went to hid in the bushes. then they so a lot of men carrying guns talking to the villagers. Then all of sudden they started taking the things of the villagers
P3	Boom chaos strikes everyone is panicking all those who don't want to give their stuff while be taken hostage they came to his parents house and they refused to give their stuff because they could barley afford anything.
P4	When Joseph and Noah so this there was only one thing in there mind and that was to run as far as they can. they reached the middle of the woods and then they met a  snake but this snake was different Noah could talk to this snake only he could because he had special powers he spoke Parseltongue.
P5	He spoke to this snake and this snake new exactly who he was and his origin he told him a long time ago when he was a baby there was a hero and he was dying so they found Noah and they gave him the powers of this hero.
P6	Noah and Joseph looked at each other and  then they new what to do Noah might have been scared but he was brave and he stood up to them. Noah made a shield and the bullets could not defeat Noah so he blasted his energy beams and then the bad guys were defeated and they ran away.
P7	When Noah made the bad guys run away he ran to his family and the village was back to normal they fixed it and from then on Noah was a hero and the protector and he was no longer bullied the end.

images:

illustrations/pages/5999.png
illustrations/pages/26585.png
illustrations/pages/10771.png
illustrations/pages/2670.png

translations:

