url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=34002&d=0&a=1
id:	34002
title:	Long live Queen Nthabeleng
author:	Matete Lesele
artist:	Matete Lesele
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/34002.png
desc:	A evil woman plans to take the Queens place as ruler of Edenville.

page_text:

P1	Queen Nthabeleng was the beautiful ruler of Edenville. She was kind, fair and treated people with respect. She had her people's best interest at heart. The people of Edenville loved her but not entirely everyone.
P2	The only lady who did not like Queen Nthabeleng was Medusa. Medusa met with her sister, Melissa. "That so called kind queen does not know how to handle power. I want to take her place and rule over Edenville", said Medusa. Melissa did not like this.
P3	As Medusa was still telling her sister her devious plan, two sisters heard what she was saying from a distance. This troubled them as they did not think anyone would dislike Queen Nthabeleng as she was the kindest queen of them all.
P4	The two sisters, troubled by what they heard, rushed back home and met some villagers on the way. The two sisters then told the villagers what they heard and as expected, the villagers were as surprised by the news. They feared for their queen's life.
P5	After learning about what Medusa wants to do, the villagers went off. They wanted to warn the queen about whats coming to her.
P6	One of the villagers, Chichi, was too concerned about what she was told that she went to Medusa's sister, Melissa, to question her. She asked Melissa if indeed Medusa is planning on taking the queen's place. Melissa confirmed that it's true and that she herself doesn't like Medusa's plan.
P7	The Queen was walking around her kingdom and came across Medusa. "Hello, Medusa. How are you today?", said the queen. Medusa thought she would pretend to the queen. "I am very well, m-m-m-my queen". As the queen passed Medusa, she mumbled under her breath and said "Wait 'til my plan comes together. Soon I'll have your chair".
P8	The villagers went to the queen to warn her about Medusa. They explained everything to her, including that Melissa confirmed what they're saying. "I came across Medusa and she seemed fine to me", said the queen. The villagers said the queen should not trust Medusa, they urged her to take protective measures.
P9	After hearing what her people told her, Queen Nthabeleng went to question Chichi. As suspected, Chichi did confirm that what Melissa said is true. She also mentioned that Melissa doesn't like her sister's idea. Queen Nthabeleng was pleased to hear that Melissa doesn't like her sister's devious plan.
P10	When Medusa realised that her sister sold her out, she got angry and went to question her. Melissa told her that she did not like her plan to take over the queen's place. Medusa felt betrayed and cast a spell that caused Melissa to be paralysed an eternity.
P11	Queen Nthabeleng summoned Medusa to answer for her crimes to conspire against her. "Is it true that you want to take my place as ruler and sit on my chair"?, asked Queen Nthabeleng. "No. I would never plot such a thing against you", said Medusa. "I know you're lying to me because your own sister confirmed that it's true", said the Queen.
P12	"Of course I want your seat!", shouted Medusa. "I want your seat so I can show you how real power is used on these worthless subjects of yours", added Medusa. What Medusa did not know was that Queen Nthabeleng had powers of her own, other than being the ruler of Edenville. She cast a spell on Medusa causing her go on an eternal sleep.
P13	The people of Edenville hailed their Queen as the greatest Queen ever. Even though she had power to do anything that she wanted, she never used it for her own benefit. Instead, she used her power to protect herself and Edenville from harm's way. With Medusa gone, Edenville was safe and its people lived happily ever after.

images:

illustrations/pages/93740108.png
illustrations/pages/93740101.png
illustrations/pages/93740113.png
illustrations/pages/93740111.png
illustrations/pages/93740107.png
illustrations/pages/93740106.png
illustrations/pages/93740115.png
illustrations/pages/93740109.png
illustrations/pages/93740104.png
illustrations/pages/93740112.png
illustrations/pages/93740114.png
illustrations/pages/93740103.png
illustrations/pages/93740102.png
illustrations/pages/93740101.png

translations:

