url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=34575&d=0&a=1
id:	34575
title:	The Homeless Boy
author:	Sam Wachira
artist:	Kenneth Boyowa Okitikpi, Jesse Breytenbach and Catherine Groenewald
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/34575.png
desc:	The story is about a homeless boy who was adopted by a kind family

page_text:

P1	Once upon a time, there lived a girl.Her parents brought her up in a presentable way, always smart and good to others. She was respectful and most of all very humble. One day as she was playing with her friends they discovered a place where
P2	they could hide while playing and no one would find them.This place they found was a home for a young boy who was homeless.They found the boy asleep, shivering and hungry too.She told her other friends what she saw and they went to check
P3	for themselves. She asked them to help the boy with what they had.Some brought food, clothes,water and playing items for the boy.When the boy saw all that,he became very happy and thanked them for considering him as one as their friend.
P4	Months after months, the girl would bring the boy food and some water, and if sick she would stay with him till evening.One day her parents were concerned where their daughter went to in the afternoons after school.
P5	They decided to follow her till where she went.On arriving she gave the boy as usual food and water but this time she came with book and read stories for him.The girl ensured the boy knew how to read and write.One day after school she took
P6	extra books for her friend.She was so excited and ran to give the boy the books.That day she didn't bring him food as she was too excited about the books.They read the books and wrote suddenly, it got late as she waited for
P7	the rain to go but later decided to stay there the whole night.Her parents got really worried that something terrible might have happened to their daughter so they decided to go look for her.When they arrived they found them together
P8	in the cold trying to keep warm with the few clothes that the boy had.It was time for her to leave and she requested the parents to not leave the boy behind. The parents were not for the idea but the girl insisted that if the is left
P9	then she would be left, the parents had no choice but to go with the boy too.The girl was really happy that the boy would now eat,bath and sleep comfortably.Early the following day, the girl asked the parents to take him to school but
P10	the girl's parents declined as they didn't know the boy.The girl told them "I know him very well,I took care of him everyday after school, brought him food and taught him how to read and write." She added,
P11	"He is a good boy but has no one to take care of him." The parents were challenged by their girl's kindness and promised to think about it.The boy stayed with them till the end of that month.
P12	The following month the parents were ready to take responsibility of raising the boy as their own son.They adopted the boy,gave him a name took him to school and lived as a family.The boy was very bright in class always leading.
P13	He was disciplined too and the teachers were very proud of him. He was greatful to the parents for taking him as their own son,he loved them.They lived happily as one family.

images:

illustrations/pages/27125.png
illustrations/pages/8601.png
illustrations/pages/27125.png
illustrations/pages/9840.png

translations:

