url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=34696&d=0&a=1
id:	34696
title:	The Enchanted Friends
author:	Melissa Zahra
artist:	
lang:	0
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/34696.png
desc:	Explore the Enchanted village with Queenycorn Melicorn

page_text:

P1	Far away as North as we can go there was an Enchanted village ruled by a Queenycorn named Melissa. She is stylish and smart. She has a pet bird named Angel. It can change colour. She has two best friends named Silvercorn and Sparkles
P2	Silvercorn is the smartest girl in Enchanted village. She can read spells perfectly. But there's only one problem she can't read the Unicorn spell perfectly. Her friends always tell her to do her best. She carried her pet unicorn every
P3	Where she goes. It's name is Goldy. Silvercorn thinks Goldy is annoying but she stills love Goldy.
P4	Sparkles is the best petsitter in Enchanted village she is paid 50 glitter boxes for every pet she sittered. But when her best friends, Melicorn and Silvercorn asked her to sitter their pet she will never ask them to pay. She has a pet
P5	leopard that she loved so much. It's name is Shine. Shine knew how to read spells just for pets. Shine loves it when Sparkles sittered some pets so that Shine could play with them
P6	One morning Melicorn went to Mr. Cinnamon's bakery. "Oh good morning your majesty. What makes you come here early in the morning?" "Well, I want to buy your new butter cake roll. I know it always finished at 3.00 pm, so I decided to come
P7	Early "Oh okay. But can you wait for a while your majesty my butter cake roll is still in the oven. "Mr. Cinnamon said. "No worries. I knew a spell how to bake something in a second." Melicorn said while she cast a spell on the cake rol
P8	The cake roll is now perfectly baked. Melicorn put the butter cake roll in her basket and gave Mr cinnamon 10 glitter boxes. "10 glitter boxes? It's okay your majesty my butter cake roll only cost 5 glitter boxes." Said Mr cinnamon. Only
P9	5 glitter boxes? I thought you sold your cakes and bread for 10 glitter boxes. "Asked Melicorn." My cake rolls is only 5 glitter boxes. "Oh really? It's okay keep them for Cindy, your daughter." Melicorn said. Cindy went out of the
P10	Curtain and said "Daddy i am a wake! Huh the Queenycorn is here?" As she bowed. "Yes I am here". As they had fun.
P11	Right at Silvercorn's house Silvercorn, Melicorn and Sparkles had a terrible sleep over. Okay let me tell you what happened. They went swimming in the middle of the night and had a fever but they are cured after two weeks.
P12	To be continued...

images:

illustrations/pages/28020101.png
illustrations/pages/28020102.png
illustrations/pages/28020103.png
illustrations/pages/28020104.png

translations:

