url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=35550&d=0&a=1
id:	35550
title:	Fruits of freedom
author:	Caroline Chimba
artist:	Abraham Muzee, Marleen Visser and Vusi Malindi
lang:	English
level:	Read aloud
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/35550.png
desc:	A village sets out to find independence.

page_text:

P1	Namangolwa and her grandchildren sat outside her house. The children were excited because they really enjoyed listening to their grandmother's stories. Namangolwa began: Long, long ago. She paused and looked at her grandchildren's faces glow with curiosity.
P2	Namangolwa continued to tell this story: Beyond the hills and valleys, was a place called Zambezi. For years, people from Bulaya occupied Zambezi. The people in Zambezi were forced to work for long hours with little pay. All that they produced was taken to Bulaya. The little that remained was sold back to Zambezi people at high prices.
P3	One day, the people of Zambezi held a meeting. They had decided that enough was enough. They wanted their land back from Bulaya. They discussed the odds of winning. They knew that Bulaya had a strong army and better weapons. There were many ideas, but even after a long time they had no solution. Just as they were about to give up, a young man stood up and said, "I think I know a way."
P4	They were all curious and asked, "Tell us!" The young man began, "My grandfather told us about a man named Ubuntu who lives across the forest. He grows a fruit called umubuyu which gives people the strength and wisdom to do anything. Let me find this man." They were all silent and did not know what to do. Since no one else had a better idea, they said, "You go and find this Ubuntu."
P5	The young man set out to find Ubuntu. After five days of going through the forest he came out to find a hut.  He was very happy. He found Ubuntu,  who asked, "What do you want?" The young man answered, "I want umubuyu." As he said that, the other man's eyes grew bigger with surprise. It was so long since anyone had gone in search of the mubuyu fruit.
P6	They talked for a long time. Ubuntu decided to give the young man the fruit. He said, "Listen carefully. Once you eat this fruit you will acquire wisdom which will help your people to win independence. You will be the leader of Zambezi. Rule with humility." He gave the young man a small round fruit and added,  "Follow my instructions and your land will prosper. Now, go, and tell no one about me.''
P7	The young man went back to Zambezi. Just as Ubuntu had said, they were able to chase away the people of Bulaya and get back their land. A  grand celebration was held where every young and old member of the Zambezi Village turned up to eat, drink and dance. The young man was praised for his courage. He became the first leader of independent Zambezi. This man was wise and governed his people well. He served them with humility and considered them in every action he took.
P8	Namangolwa said, "My dear grandchildren, the fruit of freedom comes to each one of us at a given point. Be wise enough to use it well. Remember your actions do not only affect you but everyone around you."  The happy grandchildren went into the house. Namangolwa sat back and watched them go. She hoped the stories she told them would build them into better people and leaders for tomorrow.

images:

illustrations/pages/10618.png
illustrations/pages/18819.png
illustrations/pages/10616.png
illustrations/pages/10619.png
illustrations/pages/10620.png
illustrations/pages/19581.png
illustrations/pages/19578.png
illustrations/pages/10624.png
illustrations/pages/18842.png

translations:

English (Original)	Fruits of freedom	id=19561
English (Adaptation)	Fruits of freedom	id=19885
IciBemba (Adaptation)	Ifisabo fya Buntungwa	id=35610
