url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=35648&d=0&a=1
id:	35648
title:	The story of Snowstorm
author:	Bridgett Kehl
artist:	
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/35648.png
desc:	This is a story I made up to get my son to sleep he liked it so I put it on paper... Hope yall like it!!!!!!!

page_text:

P1	Once upon a Time there was a girl who was born with magical abilities that found out she was not the only one in the world. What she found out was there was a whole reservation full of magical people.
P2	When Brittani was two years old she was takin from her biological mom who had no magical abilities whatsoever. So she was takin to this reservation. She was adopted by Snowlily and adopted dad name James who named her Snowstorm
P3	their last name was heart and they're apart of the snow guardian tribe. She began to know her adoptive parents.
P4	Then one day when she was four years old a bad guy came along somebody who wielded no magical abilities but understood how to take down the magicals because he worked on the reservation for years.
P5	She watched her whole tribe and Mom Snowlily and dad James be killed in front of her.@@  She found out a few years afterwards. The real reason why her parents who adopted her and loved her were killed.
P6	Snowstorm's parents were killed cause she was not a snow guardian she was a Moonlight Eclipse Phoenix guardian she was the only one with her magical abilities left. After they were killed grandmother Willow took Snowstorm and protected her.
P7	Grandmother willow took her to the reservation keeper name John. John then placed her back with her biological mom who had no abilities whatsoever.She grown up hiding her magical abilities from all of her classmates and her sister.
P8	Only ones that knew that she was magical was her mom, her Nana, and her papa. @@Then one very close friend had saw her using magical abilities to protect a baby that was found in a trash can.From that day her friend named Kit didn't tell
P9	her that she knew until the day that she needed help. When Kit's neighbor took kit to school she hollered  Snowstorm Snowstorm help me help me because Kit's neighbor was in a car accident with Kit in the car.@Kit yelled and Snowstorm went
P10	and helped Kit and her neighbor by healing them and healing the driver next to them. Who they have crashed into.@Snowstorm fix the cars,  erased everyone but Kit's minds.Snowstorm told Kit to not tell anyone or they will be in danger.
P11	Kit told her I won't tell because at least I know I have somebody to protect me.@After a few years Snowstorm and Kit was in highschool. Snowstorm heard a intruder in the school. She did not let anyone know. Cause she had a way to let
P12	somebody from the reservation know cause she had a way to tell them through her mind.They sent the best cole to protect the school without anyone finding out but it was sadly not enough.When she went to lunch she took her wig
P13	off and went to help.She teleported the intruder and Cole to the reservation. They defeated the intruder and then Snowstorm went back to school. Snowstorm got back just in time to go back to class. The next class had
P14	her best friend Kit in the class. After that....  Through the years up until Snowstorm and Kit's senior year Snowstorm helped make the school safe without showing that she was magical. When they graduated from high school. They went there
P15	Separate ways Kit went to college and had a big family shortly after. Snowstorm went back to the reservation permanently. She lived off the land. She had a family of her own with her husband Keni and four girls, six boys.
P16	The @                  end...........@      That's what you think!!!!

images:

illustrations/pages/39550101.png
illustrations/pages/39550102.png

translations:

