url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=35856&d=0&a=1
id:	35856
title:	Sprinks's vacation
author:	Kyla Jackson
artist:	
lang:	None
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/35856.png
desc:	When sprinkles leaves her bakery and crew for a day chaos comes both towards her business and vacation.

page_text:

P1	CHAPTER 1@to much work!
P2	Most of the time sprinkles is very busy in her bakery. Rarely she is very very busy in her bakery. But today, her bakery was very very very busy! Who got the chocolate cupcake with no icing, no sprinkles, and no cupcake!? Yelled sprinkles.
P3	Finaly, the bakery was closed. and sprinkles was already sleep by sun set when she got home. The next morning she went back to work just to see half of town lined up at her bakery. What are you guys doing here? Sprinkles asked.
P4	The bakery doesn't open until 10 AM! Sprinkles stated. We know! That's why we came. Don't wanna miss out on cup cakes! A big bear said. I can't wait to try this months new flavor. a cat said. I herd it's delicious! A baby rabbit said.
P5	Sprinkles squeezed through the crown and through the door to find her workers looking worried. What do we do! Employee berrybear questioned. Im all for cup cake lovers but who knew so many toys in stuffy town craved them!
P6	Said employee Bearbear. I'm sending more workers to help. about 4 more have been hired. Said sprinkles. Also all the storage workers are going to work as waters and waitresses as well as cashiers. Remember, rule 1 don't panic. rule 2
P7	Keep cooking. And rule 3 after exactly 1045 days the owner gets a day on vacation. And I'm the owner so, byeee! Said sprinkles as she ran out the door. Well that was unexpected. Stated Bearbear. Yeah. Berrybear agreed.
P8	CHAPTER 2@airport mishaps
P9	Sprinkles ran home to pack her bags then made her way to the airport. At the suitcase sucurity, a small kitten ran past sprinkles. Can I help you? Sprinkles asked the kitten. Uhhhhhhh. The kitten said as she stared.
P10	Suddenly they hear "peony, come back!" Eeeeeeee! The kitten shreiked. Help me. The kitten asked sprinkles. Ok! Sprinkles agreed worried. Here, hide in my suit case! Sprinks suggested. Then a cat ran in. Have you sent my cousin peony!?
P11	Wait your kitten? Just then they saw the security take sprinkles's suit case to be loaded in the plane! Oh no. Peony is in that suitcase! Sprinkles stated. What! The ccookie said worried. Don't worry, we'll get her. Said sprinkles
P12	They followed the suit case all the way to the airport. And ended up getting there just in time for the flight. peony was also there, just in the storage room of the plane! Flight atendent! Cookie yelled. One of the suitcases has a kitten
P13	Of mine in it! Said cookie. Oh my! The flight attendant gasped. Ile tell our pilot to land. She said as the walked away. The plane landed and peony was safe. Don't ever run of again, ok? Said cookie. Ok. Peony agreed. Suddenly sprinkles
P14	Noticed that they were at they're destination! Vacation sweet vacation home! Sprinks signed happily.
P15	CHAPTER 3@No stoping this busy bear
P16	Sprinkles and cookie had a fun relaxing time at the beach until.......ring ring! Oh, my phone. Said sprinkles. Uh, sprinkles? Said Bearbear through the phone. Help! Berrybear yelled through the phone. What happened!? Sprinkles asked. Well,
P17	Bearbear started. The storage workers are acting like they've never talked to people before, 1 new worker is afraid of the blender, 2 new workers won't cut up the fruit because they don't feel like it and berry bear, well......I'm freaking
P18	Out! Bearbear yells through the phone. I know your relaxing but we need you back asap! Bearbear informed. Ok. Sprinkles answered sadly. Wait what if I give you advice over the phone!? Sprinkles suggested. Suddenly berrybear snatched the
P19	Phone from Bearbear. Yeah, sure, Anything! Berrybear said out of breath. Ok, Sprinkles started. Put worker one in charge of cutting fruit, put the lazy workers in charge of storage and berrybear you supervise them. And Bearbear your
P20	In charge. Then Bearbear took the phone from berrybear. Me? O-okay. Bearbear said studdering. Alright remember rule one don't panic rule two keep cooking and rule four have fun! Said sprinkles. Ok boss bye! Said berrybear.
P21	CHAPTER 4 a flight of a life time
P22	The next day, bearbear called back. Sprinkles, every thing is even worse I think it's best if you come back. Sorry. Said Bearbear. Ok. Sprinkles answered sadly. Wait! Sprinkles started. It's been 1 day, I'm coming home anyways! Sprinkles
P23	Chuckled. See you soon! Berry bear said over the phone. Bye. Said sprinks.
P24	Sprinkles packed up and got on the air plane to head home in the plane she saw a girl with a cat. Aww, your cat is so cute! Can I pet it? She asked. Oh sorry she's sleeping. The girl answered. Oh, ok. Said sprinkles. But then she noticed
P25	That it wasn't really sleep and that the cat was clawing her fabric cage. Look out! Fierce cat on the loose! Sprinkles screamed. Soon the plane became chaos. The cat climbed up the flight attendant and scratched up her pretty red scarf.
P26	The cat ran everywhere scaring the passengers and even the co pilot. Which is how they almost crash landed luckily the pilots has a cranky pet cat as well, so he's used to it. they kept in the sky as the owner calmed the cat. They kicked
P27	The owner And the cat out. Soon they were almost home. Excuse me, flight me@Attendant? Sprinks asked. Yes? She answered anoyed. Can I get a water please? Said sprinkles. Ok. She answered. The flight attendant walked away with 1 broken heel
P28	And a Riped scarf. And scence her walk was Uneven, that how the water spiled all over the airplane controls and they crash landed. Luckily they chrash landed right in front of sprinks's bakery. Home sweet home! Said sprinkles.
P29	CHAPTER 5 back in business
P30	Ok, strawberrys check. Bearbear started. Bananas check. cupcakes check. Suddenly sprinkles ran through the door. Sprinkles! Berrybear yelled. Wow, It looks like chaos in here. Said sprinkles. Yeah Berrybear agreed. Ok guys let's get baking!
P31	Mabye we should close the bakery first? Bearbear suggested. Good idea. Sprinkles agreed. Attention every one! Berrybear yelled. The bakery is now closed. Please come back tomorrow. Said berry bear. After avery one left sprinks and her crew
P32	Worked all evening to get the bakery back in tip top shape. Ok, you two lazy ones..... Your fired. Said sprinkles. Fill free to try out again once you know how to put more work into your job. Said sprinkles. Ok. they agreed.
P33	And worker 1- I like you, but you need to get more comfortable with the kitchen aquitment. Said berrybear. Alright. He agreed. Ok you storage workers can go back to storage. Bearbear informed. Alright, good. They agreed. Finally the bakery
P34	Was back in order and the next day it was back in business. Hey guys, sprinkles started. I was thinking we should change rule 3 so that instead of the owner going.......... The whole crew goes on vacation- together! Yeah! Everyone exlaimed.
P35	THE END

images:

illustrations/pages/89250101.png
illustrations/pages/89250102.png
illustrations/pages/89250103.png
illustrations/pages/89250104.png
illustrations/pages/89250105.png
illustrations/pages/89250106.png
illustrations/pages/89250107.png
illustrations/pages/89250108.png
illustrations/pages/89250109.png
illustrations/pages/89250110.png
illustrations/pages/89250111.png

translations:

