url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=35860&d=0&a=1
id:	35860
title:	My Special Day
author:	Gerlyn Jane Balbada
artist:	Jesse Breytenbach
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/35860.png
desc:	Gerlyn wanted to have a laptop for her online class so

page_text:

P1	
P2	Setting: Home@@Main Character: @Gerlyn Jane- A kind, loving, softhearted, faithful, and Family Orientated person. Not too attractive, skinny, and Morena Girl. A college student and the one whose wishing to have a new laptop.
P3	Other Characters:@Eve- Gerlyn's loving, caring and understanding mother, An OFW.@Gebs- Gerlyn's younger Brother, The owner of the phone.@Relatives and friends- the visitors on the birthday.
P4	Conflict:  Gerlyn wanted to buy new laptop for online classes because her second handed phone sometimes power's off automatically. but until now she's still complaining to her mother because her mother keep promising to buy her new laptop.
P5	The Story:@In a crowded place there is a Girl named Gerlyn she is skinny, Morena, and a tall girl. she loves to wear loose shirts and hoodies, that's sometimes her neighborhood think that she's not straight but they're wrong she's straight.
P6	Her personality is quite rude but really she is a soft-hearted, helpful, respectful and faithful girl. Every Sunday she go to church with her family and everytime she go to with her family she's  always wishing to have a new laptop.
P7	Gerlyn has been pressing her mother Eve to buy her a laptop for her online classes. She was in First year college and she really needs it for her online classes.
P8	As far as she could remember, she was asking her mother since when she started senior high school but her mother just kept on promising that she would buy her one.
P9	They were poor she knew it. And she understands why her mother can't still provide her a laptop until now.
P10	What she was complaining about was that her second handed phone are lagging sometimes it power's off automatically.
P11	and what she's using right now was the phone of her brother and she can't follow the lessons and attend some of the virtual classes because her brother also using his phone for educational purposes.
P12	How she wished her mother would by her laptop. Nevermind if it is the cheapest and second handed. She would happy to have one, even if it is old or had been owned by someone before.
P13	" I promised not to put it anywhere and I will take care of it" she would tell her mother in an attempt to convince her to buy her laptop.@"Okay, When I have enough money I will buy you a new laptop" her mother would tell her in return.
P14	Gerlyn's face couldn't be drawn because of the promise of her mother to her,(Pouted).What gerlyn didn't know was that her mother wanted to give her a laptop on her 19th birthdayand her mother wants to surprise her daughter.
P15	After one month her mother returned home but she doesn't see even the shadow of the laptop (she pouted again). her mother made a plan but she doesn't even know what is it.
P16	Next week would be her 19 birthday but it feels like a hill because of her face that couldn't be drawn.@@(The day on her birthday her mother preparing for her birthday)
P17	Her mother cooked her favorite which is Minudo and she also prepared different types of foods. after the preparation, her mother  go to bedroom and wrapped the the gift.
P18	when the birthday party starts and the visitors enjoying their meals her Mother Eve gets their attention first and started to talk in front of her and it surprised Gerlyn when her mother gives her the gift.
P19	Gerlyn's still confused about what will be the gift that her mother gives her.Gerlyn's mother gives her permission to open her gift without any explanation Gerlyn open the gift and she was shook of what she have seen"Oh my God"
P20	with a great smile, she hugged her mother tightly." Thank you ma, I thought you would not keep your promise but I was wrong, thank you for everything ma" Gerlyn's response for her mother's gift to her.
P21	On that day of her special day, Gerlyn received a very special gift and she really enjoy her birthday and for her it's the best day ever.

images:

illustrations/pages/32540101.png
illustrations/pages/9853.png
illustrations/pages/32540102.png
illustrations/pages/32540103.png
illustrations/pages/32540104.png
illustrations/pages/32540105.png
illustrations/pages/32540106.png

translations:

