url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=35878&d=0&a=1
id:	35878
title:	\"Who Am I\"
author:	Mark Jaca
artist:	Adonay  Gebru, Kenneth Boyowa Okitikpi and Abraham Muzee
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/35878.png
desc:	Francis is on a mission to find who he is

page_text:

P1	Once upon a time, there was a man living in a country city. He lived there for almost twenty years of being an orphan
P2	One day while he was prepairing for his breakfast. He saw his reflection on a calm and steady water. That was the first time he asked himself " Who Am I"?
P3	Due to confusion, he rashed to go to an unknown old man whom he trusts the most. "Oh poor guy, what are you doing here"? The old man asked. "Ahhh-ahhh I'd like to ask you one question, Who Am I"? Asked Francis.
P4	"I have been an orphan for almost twenty years, I didn't know who were my parents and I didn't even know my existense". Said Francis
P5	A minute later. The wind blew toward them while the birds were singing. "Can you feel the wind and hear the bird's singing"? The old man asked. "Yes I do". He answered.
P6	"That is a part of your existense, when you were born you are manifested by the soul in which you are living your life with a purpose" @@"Hays" Francis sighed. Upon hearing what the old man said, Francis heard a loud voice from afar"
P7	"Help, can someone help me please"? Francis looked frightened, "someone needs your help". The old man whispered
P8	"I'm afraid I must go back now". Said Francis. Francis turned around and walked slowly."Do you think you can avoid your conscience?, here you can use this magic stick". The old man gave the magic stick and disappeared.
P9	"You shouldn't go!", "no! I should go!", "If you do, you might get hurt!" "Huh!" Francis shouted with confusion. The trees were dancing as the wind blew stronger. Francis is afraid but his conscience stopping him from doing nothing.
P10	So he decided to go and find the stranger who needs help. Suddenly the stranger shouted "ahhhh" Francis ran to where the voice came from and finally he saw the girl lying on a mud. "Are you okay?" asked Francis.
P11	"Look at your back" the girl shouted. Francis turned around and he saw a big spider on a tree. He used the magic stick that the man gave him "mekeni mekeni dugdug doreme", and the big spider die."Thank you for saving me" The girl said.
P12	"Are you a boy" asked the girl. "What do you mean a boy"? Francis asked with confusion. The two were changing questions and answer to each other about their gender and what genitals they have.
P13	After a few hours having a conversation with the girl. Francis looked to the girl's appearance and he noticed that the girl has a whiter skin compared to him. "You look whiter than I am" Asked Francis
P14	"I came from a rich family, I'm a pure American that's why I am whiter than you" The girl said. "Look" the girl get her cellphone and capture a photo with Francis and posted it on an instagram.
P15	"What's that thing, why I am there? Asked Francis. "This is a cellphone where everyone using this for indirect communication, you can also use this to post your pictures online in a social media like instagram or facebook" the girl said.
P16	"Wait I'm gonna use my magic stick" Francis used the magic stick and they began to fly. They are both enjoying until they felt hungry.
P17	"What are going to do now"? Asked the girl. "I'm also hungry, oh wait let's use my magic stick to provide foods for us" Francis used the magic stick to provide their food then the girl also asked him to give her favorite computer sets.
P18	After providing all their needs and wants the girl asked Francis "What if you run as a president in our country, just use your magic stick and change the world, it may be a good help for everyone".
P19	"No I won't use this magic stick for such a thing, I am here because I want to find who am I and what is my purpose here on earth and now I finally know who I am thanks to the experiences having a communications with you".
P20	After the conversation, they separated from each other and Francis looked so happy after knowing everything about him. He ran to find the old man and give the magic stick to him with a happy and contented life he has.

images:

illustrations/pages/94190101.png
illustrations/pages/27125.png
illustrations/pages/13256.png
illustrations/pages/27742.png
illustrations/pages/27743.png
illustrations/pages/27745.png
illustrations/pages/26778.png
illustrations/pages/27747.png

translations:

