url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=35940&d=0&a=1
id:	35940
title:	All about me
author:	John Louie Ardiente
artist:	
lang:	None
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/35940.png
desc:	All about me all about me all about me all about me

page_text:

P1	Once upon a time there is s boy named John Louie, he is a shy, quiet, and happy person. He loves to make other people laugh and happy. He is a kind-hearted person, he always pray to God and he never forget to thank God for everything
P2	John Louie also love's to play video games and also he wants to know more about government. One day in their house, he is scrolling to his cellphone and suddenly he read an article about proposal of banning minor to take an contact sports.
P3	John Louie gets upset on this proposal because in the past he is an taekwo player. He said that " Why are they proposing this kind of bill? It's not useful. Contact sports can help people to defend themselves" he said angrily.
P4	He said to his self that "If I'm the president I will not allow that bill,  because it's not useful and martial arts can save our lives" and suddenly he thinks that he wants to a president someday. But something came up to his mind that
P5	He can't be a president because of his shyness. He is a shy person, he's always having a hard time making decisions because he's shy. And one day he came up with an idea, he said to himself that
P6	" I need to overcome my shyness, I want to communicate to other people without being shy". So he tried to be a talkative person, he always tell stories and always talk to his friends. And also he thinks that being a president needs to be
P7	A good listener and also a good follwer. He always listen to people that has a problem and he tries to help, and he always try to be a good model to his younger sister. Many days passed his shyness is gradually fading and he still
P8	Overcoming his problem and improving his confidence.
P9	Moral of the story: There's no problem that cannot be solved. We have to find ways/ solution for our problems always.

images:

illustrations/pages/20560101.png

translations:

