url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=35956&d=0&a=1
id:	35956
title:	All about me
author:	Ella Mae Viñas
artist:	
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/35956.png
desc:	This book story is 

page_text:

P1	DIGITAL SELF@@Social media is certainly a whole other world apart from the real one. It's been a blessing and a curse at the same time using it but in the a long run the experience has been solid, I think I was about 16 years old.
P2	I stepped into the digital realm and imagined all the possibilities with it.The first social media platform I officially tried was Facebook. Since I really enjoyed chatting with friends checking my notification and posting memorable picture
P3	I figured that Facebook that Facebook would be a good platform to exercise my communication and social skills. And as the days goes by digital system would control myselves from before I sleep in the evening and I wake up in the morning.
P4	My day is being encoded into digital data, sadly social media could manipulate my personalities the more that I spend time in using Facebook the more that I waste my time in nonsense things.
P5	Then one day I was shocked when my teacher call my mama to the school and she already told me that I was failed in one of our subject then my mom confront me about it and I tell them the truth that I was addicted in social media
P6	After all it happen I realized the sacrifice of my parents on me for me to finish my study then suddenly I graduated already and my parents proud on me because I got a with honor and they were happy that I enrolled in EVSU taking BSES.
P7	Physical self
P8	I am a shy type girl and I didn't know how to socialize other people that is why I'm always inside our house. After I graduated elementary my parents decided to transfer me in another school.
P9	Because I love my parents I didn't acquiesce to thier decision even it is against on my will, I already enrolled in public school and because of my character I didn't have friend anymore. I'm always quite.
P10	I always ask my self why I'm different to other girls why they are tall, skinny, slim and beautiful unlike me I'm fat, morena and short I think that it's unfair and I always think negative in my self.
P11	Until such time I meet a guy name J.A he was my first friend in that school, we always together in all matters until we have been comfortable each other and that guy  help me to build my confidence and he teach me to accept and love my self
P12	Material self
P13	I am a girl that lived from the simple family my father was a farmer while my mother is a housewife I have a 6 siblings and we are all studying. The income of my father are enough only for our everyday needs.
P14	But as a person we are assume the things that make us happy. As I studied in public school I have many friends that are in middle class let say rich kind they can afford to buy new shoes, bag, cellphone and eat in a restaurant.
P15	But for me I understand our situation and I'm thankful to my parents that even we don't have much money but we are happy and blessed.
P16	Political self
P17	I am a Filipino my father is waray while my mother is leteñio we in Samar and I'm proud of being a Filipino. I am Filipino citizen and I have the right to vote according on my will. I am a free thinker I do not blindly endorse any party's
P18	Platform I fully support our government on their project infact I'm involve a group where we teach children about Word of God and other learning matters. And we have it in different Barangay.
P19	As we life in democratic country we are all have freedom but sadly many people abuse that freedom. One of the example when the election came there are many candidate who buy there vote, they use money to win that said election.
P20	Then one time there was a man come in our street and he was campaign his candidacy substitute with thier money but I stand what is right we have I freedom and I'll use that to choose the right leader for our country.
P21	Sexual self
P22	I was in grade 8 that time when I was fall in love with a lesbian she is my best friend actually we were been together all the time every morning, afternoon or even in recess we are always in one group when we have in groupings.
P23	In short we are computable each other. Until such time she confess to me her fellings at that time I'm very confuse because I didn't know if I accept her fellings and suddenly I realize that this is not good though I love her but God didn't
P24	Permitted same sex relationship because he create only man and a wome. I tell her the truth that I didn't give the fellings that same to her, only we can continue our relationship but as a friend only nothing more than that.
P25	Spiritual self
P26	I live in a family who had a background about religion my mother is a born again Christian and my father is devoted as Roman Catholic in short I live in the sorrounding that have different belief about religion.
P27	So when I was a child I'm very confused what practices I should follow until such time when their was a group of young people in our school invited my kuya to join their prayer meeting and after that my kuya continue serve God until he was
P28	grow spiritually, that the start when my kuya tried to share the gospel in our family at first my father contradict. But the dedication of my kuya I also accept the word of God in my life until my mother and my father got save also when
P29	they accept God as thier personal Savior they believe that Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life no one commit unto the father but by me. (John 14:6) and I'm very thankful that my family were all Happy in serving God.

images:

illustrations/pages/89090101.png
illustrations/pages/89090102.png
illustrations/pages/89090103.png
illustrations/pages/89090104.png
illustrations/pages/89090105.png
illustrations/pages/89090106.png
illustrations/pages/89090107.png
illustrations/pages/89090108.png
illustrations/pages/89090109.png
illustrations/pages/89090110.png
illustrations/pages/89090111.png
illustrations/pages/89090112.png
illustrations/pages/89090113.png
illustrations/pages/89090114.png
illustrations/pages/89090115.png
illustrations/pages/89090116.png
illustrations/pages/.png

translations:

