url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=36013&d=0&a=1
id:	36013
title:	The twins
author:	DELIGHT UWUOROYA
artist:	Offei Tettey Eugene
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/36013.png
desc:	The story of a woman who shame was turned to happiness and joy.

page_text:

P1	Abuka and adama came from the village of uli,they had been married for seven (7) years but adama couldn't concieve a child for abuka.@Abuka was a very patient man,for seven years of the marriage between him and adama,they had no child but
P2	abuka was always patient on the gods and never thinked about bringing another woman into their home.@       Two years had passed and adama had no miscarriage let alone of having a child,at this point of time abuka was in trials because he
P3	wasn't given the opportunity to have a child of his own,he was growing older everyday, but yet he always loved adama his wife,his heart was filled with pure love for adama, which made him to pray to the gods more.adama on the second hand
P4	always wept bitterly she prayed and complained to the gods, she even founded it difficult to live her house because the villagers called her a barren woman, some other villagers had even accused her of being a witch who had eaten her
P5	children spiritually.@        One day while adama was going to the market to buy some food stuff, she felt very tired and went to an empty shade to rest before she could continue her journey.after resting for a while she stood up intending
P6	to continue her journey, but unexpectedly she vomited, she vomited so seriously that she fainted. people who were around rendered different helps to her,when adama woke up she could find herself in a hospital,a doctor came in excitedly,
P7	adama was so surprise and was also anxious. the doctor shared the good news with adama saying"madam you are three(3) week pregnant"adama was very confused that she fainted again.@After several attempts of the doctor trying to wake her up,
P8	she finally woke up. she asked the doctor to repeat what he said before she fainted, the doctor kindly repeated the statement again.@Adama couldn't believe her eyes, after nine years of marriage she had not been able to concieve a child and
P9	now an unknown doctor just told her that she is three weeks pregnant. Immediately adama jumped up in joy and ran home to her husband to
P10	share the good news.@        Eight months later adama was eating with her husband. Suddenly, she screamed and began to cry. immediately abuka rushed her to the hospital. Some moments later a nurse and announced to abuka that his wife had
P11	given birth to two bouncing baby boys. Abuka was filled with so much joy and rejoiced with his whole family.

images:

illustrations/pages/26762.png

translations:

