url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=36012&d=0&a=1
id:	36012
title:	Polygon family
author:	Doma DEDF
artist:	Isaac Okwir
lang:	English
level:	Read aloud
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/36012.png
desc:	Maths story about shape families. (This storybook was made possible by funding from the Oppenheimer Memorial Trust.).

page_text:

P1	"This year we are going to have a special family gathering," announced Mommy Polygon. "Who is coming? I hope all the Polygons will be there. I miss my cousins," said Nafisa. "I miss my side of the family the most,  the Quadrilaterals," smiled Mommy. "Yes,  it's a long time since we saw Rectangle,  Square,  and Rhombus," said Daddy Polygon. "Don't forget,  they have three children now!" Mommy reminded Daddy.
P2	"What about cousin Scalene and her children? Are they coming?" asked Yusuf. Mommy answered,  "Yes,  they are Polygons,  although they are not Quadrilaterals. Their surname is Triangle. The kids are Isosceles and Equilateral." "Oh yes,  the Triangle family!" exclaimed Yusuf. "But they look a lot like the Quadrilaterals." "No,  not exactly," said Mommy. "Triangles have three sides,  while the Quadrilaterals have four sides,  like me."
P3	Daddy Polygon added,  "I am excited because my three other cousins will be here,  they are Pentagon,  Hexagon and Octagon. They are also part of our Polygon family." Yusuf asked,  "Daddy,  why we are called Polygons?"  "We are called polygons because we are 2-dimensional shapes. We are made of straight lines,  and our shape is closed,  as you can see,  all our lines join up. Our cousins the Triangles,  the Quadrilaterals,  the Hexagons and the Pentagons will all be visiting," replied Daddy.
P4	"Did you say that is Octagon coming? Is she also our relative?" asked Khosi. "Of course my daughter,  by just looking at her you can see she belongs to our family. You need to look carefully at the number of sides your cousins have,  otherwise you might not be able to see the difference. Cousin Octagon has eight sides because her name starts with Octa," said Dad.
P5	"Okay,  what about Pentagon and Hexagon?" asked Yusuf. "Cousin Hexagon has six sides because his name starts with Hexa," replied Daddy. "Pentagons have five sides. Our teacher told us that Penta means 'five'," added Nafisa. "And remember that Tri means three and Quad means four. That's what makes your Triangle and Quadrilateral cousins look different," said Mommy.
P6	"Daddy,  how many sides does Heptagon have?" asked Yusuf. Daddy laughed and said,  "I am not going to tell you. Remember we took a photograph with them at your uncle's wedding. I want you to look at the photograph carefully and tell me what you observe." Yusuf looked at the photograph and quickly answered,  "Heptagon has seven sides!" Nafisa added,  "Yes,  remember our teacher told us that Hepta means 'seven'."
P7	"Oh my wife,  can you see how clever our children are? Okay,  what about Deca,  what does it mean?" questioned Daddy. "Ten! Ten!" shouted Yusuf and Nafisa together. "Yes,  that's why one of your cousins is called Decagon,  but he is not coming because he has to represent the swimming team. There are so few Decagons at their school," Mommy told them.
P8	Then the children asked,  "Mommy and Daddy,  can we invite our friend Circle from next door?" Their parents agreed that Circle was welcome to join the family gathering. Just then they heard a knock at the front door,  and Daddy got up to check. "The Quadrilaterals are here! Welcome! Welcome" called Daddy.
P9	The rest of the family jump up to greet Square,  Rectangle and the three Rhombus children. The Quadrilaterals are happy to arrive first.
P10	The Triangle family knock on the door soon after the Quadrilaterals. Scalene,  Isosceles and Equilateral are tired after their long journey,  but they are so pleased to be with the rest of the family.
P11	Finally,  Octagon and Heptagon arrive with their children,  two Pentagons and Hexagon. They have also brought three Squares with them. Octagon explained,  "I hope you don't mind that three Quadrilateral children from the village have come with us. They have never visited the city before." "Friends and family are always welcome here," smiled Mom. Then she sent all the children outside to play.
P12	"What game are we going to play?" Yusuf asked the other children. Equilateral squealed,  "Let's play the tessellation game!" All the Polygon children started to tessellate. "Can I play with you? I also want to tessellate," said Circle. Yusuf said,  "Shame,  I'm sorry you can't tessellate my friend." One of the Squares added,  "Can't you see your shape,  you are not a Polygon. Circles can't tessellate."
P13	Circle was sad and felt left out. It's not so much fun playing together when someone is left out. Yusuf said,  "Hey guys,  let's rather play a game that Circle can also play." So the Polygons and Circle played happily together until the delicious food was ready.

images:

illustrations/pages/19270.png
illustrations/pages/19268.png
illustrations/pages/19270.png
illustrations/pages/19271.png
illustrations/pages/19272.png
illustrations/pages/19273.png
illustrations/pages/19274.png
illustrations/pages/19275.png
illustrations/pages/19276.png
illustrations/pages/19277.png
illustrations/pages/19278.png
illustrations/pages/19279.png
illustrations/pages/19280.png
illustrations/pages/19281.png
illustrations/pages/19282.png
illustrations/pages/19283.png
illustrations/pages/19284.png

translations:

Afrikaans (Adaptation)	Die Veelhoek familie	id=35149
English (Original)	Polygon family	id=19285
isiNdebele (Translation)	Umndeni wePholigoni	id=21707
isiZulu (Translation)	Umndeni wezimo ezingamaPolygon	id=19286
Kiswahili (Translation)	Familia ya Pembenyingi	id=21985
Sesotho (South Africa) (Translation)	Lapa la Pholikone	id=21597
Siswati (Translation)	Umndeni waboBunjwa	id=21637
