url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=36484&d=0&a=1
id:	36484
title:	The parent child switch agency
author:	Matthew Alves
artist:	
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/36484.png
desc:	This is a story about children and parents who learn what it’s like for their child or parent to live.

page_text:

P1	“Mommy NOOO!” said Sam “I don’t want to go to school.” “I pay for your education and you will go” said mom. As you can see Sam doesn’t want to go to school, he’d rather stay at home and watch tv. “If you’d just listen to me for once in your
P2	life” “NOOOOO! I don’t want to go to SCHOOL.” “You will go to school or I’ll take away tv for a year.” Then Sam remained silent and put on his bag and went to school with a big frown on his face. “I wish he would just listen to me, he does
P3	not know how hard it is being a parent.” She went to the tv she saw the parent child switch agency. “Soon your children will know what it’s like being a parent and you’ll get to be a child again. Impossible you say while not for us the
P4	age-o-magic can change your age to any number from 0-60 other numbers like 82 are too dangerous to try because it could kill you.” As soon as Sam got home his mother told him all about it. “Oh please, you wouldn’t last a day as a child”
P5	said Sam. “Well I think it’s a great idea, we’re going”said mom. As soon as they arrived the parent child switch agency were ready. “Welcome to the parent child switch agency, here you will both know what it feels like to be adult and child
P6	with our age-o-matic you will change your ages and you will go into the world and then you will know what it’s like. Follow me.” So they followed the lady to the age-o-matic. ”How old would you like to be Sam” said the lady. “Umm... 22” he
P7	said. “Alright then, stand in the age-o-matic” she said. As soon as he came out he was exactly 23 years old. Then when mom came out she was 7. “Good luck, to both of you” she said. “I’m going to crush you” they both said at the same time.
P8	Of course Sam had to take care of mom and it didn’t go so well. “Sam can I have orange juice” said mom. “No” he said. But really he was busy with something else then he remembered the times when he wanted something and his mom was busy now
P9	he knows how his mom feels. “I’m sorry for shouting at you when you said no to me” said Sam. “It’s ok Sam” said mom. Mom had to go to school and it wasn’t going so good either she was bullied a lot and kids made fun of her. When she got
P10	she was mad. “Sorry for yelling at you every time you got home with a bad face, and when you didn’t want to go to school” said mom. “It’s okay” said Sam. They soon both realised how difficult their lives were. After a few days they gave up
P11	and went to the parent child agency to switch back. When they got home switched back they hugged each other and behaved much better. Try to be good and kind to your parents you never know what they are going through.

images:

illustrations/pages/52240101.png
illustrations/pages/52240102.png
illustrations/pages/52240103.png

translations:

