url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=36521&d=0&a=1
id:	36521
title:	Christian Faith and Life
author:	Michelyne Mae Villocino
artist:	
lang:	None
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/36521.png
desc:	Christian Faith and Life and our personal experiences

page_text:

P1	Being Christian is about being a friend to Jesus Christ. It is not about performing rituals or always attending in a mass.
P2	I, myself, doesn't always attend a mass. My mom and dad, too. I don't usually do rituals but I don't forget Jesus Christ
P3	When my lola was still living here in Davao, every 6 in the evening and 6 in the morning, we are always do a rosary together.
P4	She always attend a mass every Sunday. Even it is raining, she still wants to go to church. I may be not like her that always attend a mass, doing a rosary everyday, I always remember God.
P5	I, sometimes forgot to pray before going to sleep. But my mom always remind us that we should pray before going to sleep. Years ago, I remember that I don't pray every night and even just a little talk to God
P6	Sometimes I can see a dark thing in my peripheral view (it looks like a person though), and then if I look at it, it suddenly disappear. Sometimes, I am having a bad dream everyday.
P7	I confront my aunt about it and she asked me if I am still praying to God and I answered her a no. Then she told me that I will try to pray everynight again and maybe that is the reason why.
P8	Since then, I always pray to God everynight before I will sleep. I realized that I don't see a dark thing again.
P9	I am now facing a trial from God. I have a scoliosis and I knew that since last 2017. My usually things I do, disappear like a wind. I got shocked for it because who thought that it will disappear in one time
P10	My doctor limited my doings, I stopped playing Volleyball, I stopped being a member of majorette, I can't play like there is no tomorrow.
P11	Lately, I knew about my toxic goiter. I got it from my grandmother, my father's mother, it is a inheritance from her, well my scoliosis got it from my grandmother, my mother's aunt, it is a inheritance too.
P12	I always pray to God that I am hoping that there will be a miracle, I believe in miracle. I know that God is just trying my faith in Him.
P13	Always believe that God is always there for us and He will not leave us. Always pray, talk to our God, even just a little time. Always believe in Him 😇

images:

illustrations/pages/54280101.png
illustrations/pages/54280102.png
illustrations/pages/54280103.png

translations:

