url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=36574&d=0&a=1
id:	36574
title:	TROPICAL ISLAND PARTY
author:	Omphile Phoba
artist:	
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/36574.png
desc:	People can start as enemies but end up being friends I hope you enjoy my book as I enjoyed it have fun.

page_text:

P1	On the 26 of April is my birthday party.anyway am Zoe I live with my mom dad and sister. I never have privacy. Because my sister  is always putting her nose in everything. Zoe)mom can you give me 150. Mom)what for I don't have it.
P2	My mom thinks am stupid she  got  paid yesterday.I am about to meet Cloe and Jenny to think of a theme for my  party Zoe)Hi guys have you thought of a theme for the party I want this party to be a big bash.
P3	Cloe)I have a theme for the party TROPICAL ISLAND party let's say on the 5th of February we go to party land  .We gather all the money we have and buy what we can buy. Zoe )well that's great  thanks  okay my mom is calling me I have  to go
P4	Days went by and Its finally February  the 5th Its morning I woke up and went  straight to the shower before my sister took an hour in there she says she's  bathing but she's literally watching her cat videos.
P5	Am bathing and she runs in like nobody's in there. This is what I talk about when I don't get privacy .I went to go meet Cloe and Jenny and I bumped into my frienemy her name is Mkayla Ross she's a spoiled brat. I never  told you about her
P6	Because I never wanted you to now  about her  .Mkayla)Hey loser heard  you planning a party fyi it's going to be lame just like you. Zoe)well well well look who's talking Mrs you think your the best in everything well fyi you're not.
P7	Wow that felt great I never really stand up for myself and told her where to get of. Jenny and Cloe called me I went over. We all took out what we had. Jenny had 200  Cloe had 100 and I had 150 altogether  we had  R450 .
P8	We only bought a few things like a birthday crown and  six beach items and  that's  all we went to the paycheck to pay I didn't know where the money was  uuuu uu I retraced my steps and I found it in Cloe's pocket and we paid and left.
P9	I went home and slammed the door closed and put on some beach items .My sister Olivia came in and jumped on the bed I shouted at her  she started to cry  and my mom came in and said I must say sorry .Zoe)No why I have had enough  Olivia 's
P10	Not giving me privacy she's always taking my stuff without my permission I was so mad my face went red uuuuu.My mom went out of my room. Cloe texted me and said I sent all the people you wanted at your party  invitations.
P11	I woke up and took my party things to the garage. And went back in the house when I went back to check if it's still there but it wasn't no no nooo.
P12	I went back to the house and asked my parents if they'd seen a bag written party land they both said no. I wasn't surprised  seeing Mkayla with the same bag I went over to her and asked her if I can see what's inside the bag. Mkayla)uuuu
P13	I Pulled the bag out of her hand you stole it. My parents helped me with my party. Tomorrow is my birthday I can't wait. The  day is here my birthday party every one arrived and the party started. Mkayla arrived to I was so surprised. Mkayl
P14	Am sorry I stole your things please forgive me. Zoe)okay wanna join us you're welcome. Mkayla)Thank you. We ended up being friends and that's how the  story  ends .Oh my mom 's calling me  bye.

images:

illustrations/pages/57200201.png

translations:

