url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=36582&d=0&a=1
id:	36582
title:	A musical adventure
author:	Katlego Monareng
artist:	Rob Owen, Brian Wambi, Wiehan de Jager, Jesse Breytenbach, Magriet Brink, Leo Daly, Offei Tettey Eugene, Catherine Groenewald and Isaac Okwir
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/36582.png
desc:	Lesedi and her best friend Ayanda are 10 years.Lesedi lives with her parents and her older sister Lerato.She and Ayanda were adventurous.Without permission

page_text:

P1	Once upon a time in the village of Limpopo, there lived a brave, adventurous and smart  girl named Lesedi. Lesedi is 10 - years -old. She lives with her parents, Mr and Mrs Tau and her older sister Lerato. Lesedi's best friend is Ayanda.
P2	They love to play together every day. They would spend time playing outside with mud, playing with their toys or singing. Sometimes Lerato would play with them when she was bored, or when she was alone. Lesedi's sister was protective of her
P3	Lesedi loved eating fruits. She could  finish every apple in the fridge. She also likes eating sweets with Ayanda. Lesedi was very excited that tomorrow was her birthday! She went with her mom to the mall to choose a cake she wanted.
P4	Then they went to the cloths shop to pick an outfit. The sun was setting and it was the end of another happy day. It was the holidays. The next day was her birthday. She got up early in the morning and got her sister up . She's very happy.
P5	She ate her breakfast and went straight to her best friend. At 13:00 everyone sang for her and they all ate her delicious vanilla cake. Her parents gave her a very special birthday present. She unwrapped the box and it was a new phone!
P6	She was very grateful and had tears of joy. Her sister helped to unlock her phone. A few days later she downloaded some games. Now she mostly plays games with Ayanda. Lesedi's older sister also had a phone. She sent her songs she might like
P7	Lesedi did like the songs. She also knows every song that her dad plays on the speaker. When Ayanda would go visit her other family, Lesedi couldn't play with her toy alone. She would sing and dance for her family. The family would join her
P8	The songs that her dad had were traditional songs, so Lesedi only knew those songs and the songs of her phone. Lesedi would be shy to sing in front other people. She would only sing to her family and her best friend. She'd sing to sheeps.
P9	Since it was holidays, Lesedi and Ayanda would run off into the great forest they lived near by. That's why Lerato would keep an eye on her, so she doesn't get lost. So one day Lesedi and Ayanda went  to the forest because they were bored.
P10	Along their walk,they saw sheep and a farmer leading them.They greeted the farmer and the farmer greeted them. They heard chirping birds and other sounds of nature. They were heading towards the Ntsweletau Mountain, but the path was longer
P11	than they thought. They were singing songs and walking about. Ayanda saw a river then so did Lesedi. That's where they stopped going. They turned back and walked through the forest. They were singing and singing. Once they were done singing
P12	, they started to realize that they were walking around in circles. Meanwhile, Lerato noticed that they weren't in the yard. She told her parents and went to go look for them. She didn't know where to start,so she first wanted to check them
P13	at the playground far away. As she was walking along, she heard a flock of sheep behind her and a farmer She greeted the farmer and the farmer greeted her. Then she asked if he hadn't seen two small girls anywhere. The farmer told Lerato
P14	that he did see them in the forest. She was happy and thanked the farmer. She went to the forest. Lerato was calling out their names so they could hear her. Lerato was scared. Lesedi and Ayanda were also scared, thinking they'd never find
P15	the right path. Until Ayanda heard Lesedi's sister calling for them. She told Lesedi and they followed The sound of her voice. "We're here", Lesedi said, "We're right here". Now Lerato has found them.
P16	"Where were you",asked Lerato,"I've been looking for you everywhere.We were all worried about you guys". Lesedi and Ayanda apologized.They said they will run off again,without permission. Lerato didn't believe them, she just said I hope so.
P17	They all went back home.They found Ayanda's mom there.With the sad faces Lesedi and Ayanda had,Ayanda's mom and Lesedi's parents reprimanded them both.The adults thanked Lerato and everything was ok again.That was quite an adventure!The end

images:

illustrations/pages/26436.png
illustrations/pages/9853.png
illustrations/pages/1495.png
illustrations/pages/1500.png
illustrations/pages/7923.png
illustrations/pages/18768.png
illustrations/pages/13905.png
illustrations/pages/18757.png
illustrations/pages/13911.png
illustrations/pages/18767.png
illustrations/pages/26101.png
illustrations/pages/18767.png
illustrations/pages/25052.png
illustrations/pages/26065.png
illustrations/pages/7599.png
illustrations/pages/13905.png
illustrations/pages/26049.png
illustrations/pages/9842.png

translations:

