url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=36620&d=0&a=1
id:	36620
title:	Palakland part: The Start
author:	Mohammed Mirza
artist:	
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/36620.png
desc:	This book is a story about my love life

page_text:

P1	Hello there, my name is mohammed mirza and this book is about how I met this special person and my life changed completely. If my life was a movie it would be a really interesting movie. Who knows maybe one day I make a documentary.
P2	So let me start of with how I was as a person. I was always this kid who never really cared about anyone's feelings, I know it sounds terrible but for some reason I just didn't and I don't appreciate that about my past.
P3	I have been in a couple of relationships which aren't really relationships as they lasted only for a day or even less. Yes a very stupid thing that I did but you cannot hate me for who I was as a kid. So I had spent a lot of time just going
P4	about looking for people to be with until one day I was like no i dont want to be with anyone this is wrong I shouldn't be with anyone unless I actually care for them or have some type of connection with them, so I stopped dating and just
P5	started enjoying my life, going here and there with my friends and having a good time until one day I see this cute girl stalking my Instagram account, and for the first I had this curiosity that oh I went to get to know who is this person
P6	that's actually showing interest in me, so being the brave guy I was I decided to text her and ask her about the stalking and she told me that she was just checking my account and well duhh that's stalking dumbo.
P7	So that led to us having a small talk and the small talk went on to kind of a long talk and never in my entire life did I ever want to talk to anyone as much as i wanted to talk to her, I didn't know what it was I couldn't control myself.
P8	All i wanted to do the whole day was just sit and talk to her, but obviously I did not want to come out looking like a creep, but eventually we became good friends we started talking and I remember always watching her early morning
P9	live videos on Instagram and we just started to get to know each other and she started to open up about her issues and all i wanted was to just be there for her and help her out because I genuinely started to care for her.
P10	And i never had that for anyone else before. As days went by we got closer and closer and decided to meet, we made a plan to meet and everything was going pretty well and let me tell you a something that know ever got to know about.
P11	I actually thought I'd try to make a move on her if I met her because this was the only person I genuinely wanted to be with, but I was afraid I'd lose her and she'd think of me as a creep so I just talked myself out of it and focused on
P12	just meeting her a having a good time. As we came closer to the point where we were going to meet an annoying person from her side decided to make changes and ruin it all. We couldn't meet i was really bummed out but I couldn't show it
P13	as I didn't want her to think that I have something for her. And then as more days went by we talked even more and i just realized that oh I love this girl, even though we haven't met, I just know she's the one.
P14	All i could think about throughout the day was her. I felt this peace in my heart whenever I talked to her. I just wanted her to be mine. So one day I decided to come up with a way to just see if she has anything towards me.
P15	I did what I had to do and turns out she actually was interested in me so I had to make my move and tell her how I felt about her so I did and I was so scared and anxious and believe me I never felt that way in my life,
P16	I kept on thinking is she going to get weirded out and block me, is she going to ignore it, is she going to get mad, my mind was filled with negativity so I just decided to go offline and just see what she replies later on.
P17	So i was at my prayer and after my prayer I just asked God please don't make her hate me or anything of such sort, please make feelings mutual and I looked at her reply after the prayer and she had asked me whether I was pranking her,
P18	and i thought to myself "wait what" I was so confused to why she would think i would be pranking her i freaking love her, but then she explained that it had happened to her before so and so and I made it clear to her
P19	that no it's not a joke I have feelings for you and want to be with you I LOVE YOU VAISHNAVI oh by the way I'm sorry for not mentioning it but the cute girls name is vaishnavi sharma. So we talked about it and guess what, SHE ACCEPTED ME
P20	AND WE STARTED DATING ON THE 29TH OF JUNE but we told let's make the date 30th June as it's an even number and just sounds better i guess to be honest I don't know why we did so but anyways moving on.
P21	We were the cutest couple and we decided to meet for the first time after dating and we decided that we would meet at yateem center so I got ready and was all set to go. Once I reached there I saw someone who looked like her
P22	and i thought maybe I'm just seeing things, so I decided to call her again and ask her where she is and she told me where she was and then we finally met and my eyes were blessed because she looked so beautiful in her blue jeans, white top.
P23	We had the most awkward meeting and I just did not know what to say i was so nervous and shy and weird and I literally thought that this is going to be our first and last meeting as she is going to break up and block me.
P24	But it still felt so great to meet her we had a small talk and later went to our homes talked to each other got closer and closer, I learned more and more about her as weeks went by and everything just felt so perfect
P25	And i was just so happy to be with her, to be with someone I actually cared about and actually loved, it was all new to me and it all felt so right. But then things took a bad turn. Can't say much as I've got to save it for later.
P26	You'll find out what happened next in palakpanti part 2: where things went down

images:

illustrations/pages/25520101.png

translations:

