url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=36761&d=0&a=1
id:	36761
title:	the secret voice
author:	Chinemeze  Abanno
artist:	Catherine Groenewald
lang:	English
level:	Longer paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/36761.png
desc:	Alex has a special voice that tell her what to do.

page_text:

P1	Once upon a time there was a girl named Alex. She was not the most liked girl because she was very smart.@She was 10 years old and she went to a school called St Skyler's. Alex had two friends named Sky and Kimberly. She always got bullied and got angry but she had a special voice inside her head to tell her what to do.@@One day, while Alex was in the hallway to get her maths folder from her locker,  Isabella and Cilla came and pushed her very hard and laughed.
P2	" Are you ok? " asked Sky and Kimberly. "Yes" Alex said softly. But she was bursting with anger for being pushed then there was this voice. It didn't sound like a voice in her head. it was a real voice telling her to stop and wait. She knew it was not one of her friend's voices. This voice was different, it was scary.
P3	Whenever she got bullied she never got mad because of the voice.One day someone told the headMistress what  Isabella and Cilla did to Alex. She thinks that it was a secret person,or the secret voice perhaps she knew was not her friends, they were afraid of Isabela and cilla. But Alex still didn't find out who the secret person or voice was. So she looked through the school history books and asked the teacher called Rose and thay was one girl called Lexi who was still in the s
P4	As she got older she got letters and hints to where Lexi was and she finally found out where she lived  but her name was different from Lexi it was Anna and she said that she got bullied in school and she didn't want that to happen to Alex either so she told the headMistress. But Alex never found out why she changed her name.

images:

illustrations/pages/1812.png

translations:

