url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=36774&d=0&a=1
id:	36774
title:	Beth and her Dancing Shoes
author:	Kayla  Govinder
artist:	Kayla  Govinder and Siphili Makhanya
lang:	English
level:	Longer paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/36774.png
desc:	Beth has a not so secret dream... but Beth has to move to new York and leave her friends forever.Will Beth be able to make her dream come true?

page_text:

P1	"Dad, I don't want to move!" exclaimed Beth. Beth Brown was in tears. Her father John Brown had his head in his hands,he just got a job in New York, and she had just heard they would be moving there.Her mother Kate Brown was wiping away Beth's tears. "Beth just think of all the new friends you will make'' said mum. "I don't want new friends," Beth sobbed. 'I want to stay here with Sam and Lily.'
P2	Lily and Sam were Beth's best friends. They had been through so much together and the thought of leaving them forever was too much for Beth. "Beth", said dad taking his head out of his hands "I think it's time you got ready for bed"."Your dad's right, it's getting late" said mom. "But I'm not tired" whined Beth. "You have school tomorrow", dad said. "But…" stammered Beth.
P3	It was no use! The decision was already made. Next Saturday they would be moving to New York!  And there was nothing,nothing at all that she could do about it. Beth went up-stairs to get ready for bed. When she was done her mum came up-stairs to tuck her in. It wasn't long before Beth fell asleep. She was in a deep sleep until the alarm went off.She rubbed her eyes sleepily,  stretched  and got out of bed.
P4	She brushed her teeth, changed and headed downstairs for breakfast. Her mum was at the stove cooking and the smell of eggs and sausages made her tummy rumble. She sat down and mum layed a plate of eggs and sausages in front of her. She ate her breakfast hungrily, while her mum watched her smiling. When she was done she put her plate in the sink and got her school bag.
P5	She kissed her mother goodbye and went to meet with her friends Sam and Lily, so they could walk to school together. At school they went to Miss Lizzy's class for English. They learned about pronouns and after that was Maths. Finally it was break and they were able to talk about Beth moving to New York. They discussed how they could sneak onto the plane with Beth ."We could hide in her suitcase" suggested Sam.
P6	"Nah, the baggage check-in people would find us said Lily."We could dress up as flight attendants and sneak in as part of the cabin crew"said Lily."And serve people the whole flight"Sam said "no thank you."Agh, it's no use I'll just have to go to New York alone" Beth said. No one said anything for a while. "Well look on the bright side'' said Lily at last, "at least you'll be able to go and learn ballet."
P7	"It's true, I've always wanted to learn ballet"said Beth"but I'll miss you guys."And we'll miss you too" Sam and Lily said.Just then the school bell rang.The rest of the school day went by quickly. Soon it was time to go home and Beth headed off on her way. She felt some butterflies in her tummy as she wondered what life in New York would be like. She couldn't help but feel a little scared...and excited! Beth's mom was surprised to see
P8	her in good mood compared to last night but...she knew nine year olds were unpredictable.The next week went by without much fuss until it was her last day of school.Soon Beth started to feel all different emotions at once and saying goodbye to all her friends at school was really tough.Beth had finished packing all her bags and just in time too, for her plane flight was in two hours.
P9	The airport was an hour away,leaving her just 1 hour to check in and board the plane. Beth was very nervous, she had never been on a plane before.Take off was very scary for Beth but she held her mom's hand.The rest of the flight was fine except Beth's ears kept getting blocked.The flight was nineteen hours with one stop.Beth managed to sleep and watched a lot of movies including her favourite Moana.
P10	Finally the plane landed with a bump.Beth was grateful to be on land again.Her parents and her collected their luggage and headed for their new home.Beth had her face pressed against the window as she looked at all the cars, buildings and even got to see the Statue of Liberty.Beth was tired after the flight but she was excited to unpack and see her new room.
P11	Her room was big with a perfect view of her new school called School of New York Theatre Ballet (NYTB) that she'd be going to next week.The School of NYTB has been Beth's dream school for the longest time and finally she'll be going there.She is extremely excited to start and maybe, just maybe she'll get a pair of her dream dancing shoes.
P12	I mean in her mind she has danced in these beautiful ballet shoes already."Don't worry ballet shoes I'm coming for you, for my dream is just a few steps away."

images:

illustrations/pages/93741038.png
illustrations/pages/93741024.png
illustrations/pages/93741037.png
illustrations/pages/93741025.png
illustrations/pages/93741039.png
illustrations/pages/93741026.png
illustrations/pages/93741060.png
illustrations/pages/93741061.png
illustrations/pages/93741029.png
illustrations/pages/93741062.png
illustrations/pages/93741030.png
illustrations/pages/93741043.png
illustrations/pages/93741031.png

translations:

