url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=36806&d=0&a=1
id:	36806
title:	What If I Wanna Do It All?
author:	Mayenzeke Ngcobo
artist:	
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/36806.png
desc:	If you have ever been uncertain about your future job

page_text:

P1	"Can you believe we have another Maths test next week" said Lila. "I'm not to worried about it, we have time." said Zeena. As both girls walked to meet their friends during break by the benches. On their way they saw their friend April.
P2	While they were chatting they saw their friend June already sitting waiting for them. June has never been the "quiet type". Today she was quiet but she didn't seem sad, she looked puzzled more so confused. Her friends quickly realized.
P3	"What's wrong June" April asked with a worried look on her face. "l'm just thinking about what Mr Lui was talking about in class today, he was asking everyone about their dream jobs, everyone had ideas but not me, l just froze." said June
P4	"We still have time" said Zeena. June was walking home and she remembered discussion about dream jobs, even after three hours of school. She forgot that her cousins, aunts and gogo were coming to visit her and her family.
P5	June had forgotten about school when her family came over, but when they were eating, her little cousin had just had her nursery school graduation, and her mom asked why she said she wanted to be a fairy princess, at her graduation.
P6	"l don't know" she said. Which made all her cousins talk about what they wanted to be and there she was again being the only one who didn't know what she wanted to be. When she was the only one who hadn't answered her mom asked.
P7	"What do you want to be nana" said Mrs Nkosi. "I don't know Ma." said June." I remember when l was your age and everyone was talking about what they wanted to be and l just wasn't sure so l asked everyone what they did" said Mr Nkosi
P8	Mrs Nkosi looked around the table and asked the adults what they do for a living.June already knew what her aunts did, so they explained why they loved what they did. All of them and such amazing reasons for why they loved their jobs.
P9	They were either teachers, nurses, prison guards or bankers after hearing why they loved their jobs June had an even harder time deciding. She went to sleep and saw herself as many different jobs like an actor, doctor, cheif and many more.
P10	At breakfast the next morning she no longer looked confused she looked sad her brother asked what was wrong and she looked at him and said "l can't just choose one job." she said. "Why?" he asked. "Because l want to do it all' she said.
P11	Her mom made her aware that having one job doesn't mean you can't do anything else. For example Junes older cousin is a lawyer but teaches at there churches Sunday school, and her other cousin is a fitness trainor but has a YouTube channel.
P12	On Monday she went to school and they had to discuss dream jobs, when it was her turn she said " l wanted to do it all and l thought l couldn't until l realized l can't say it's my deam job unless i'm happy with what l'm doing." June said
P13	"Right now l can't tell you exactly what l want to be but l can say that l want to help people and make people smile, what l can say is that it will make me happy, so l guess l won't do it all but what ever l do will make a difference."

images:

illustrations/pages/71650101.png
illustrations/pages/71650102.png
illustrations/pages/71650103.png
illustrations/pages/71650104.png
illustrations/pages/71650105.png
illustrations/pages/71650106.png
illustrations/pages/71650107.png
illustrations/pages/71650108.png
illustrations/pages/71650109.png
illustrations/pages/71650110.png
illustrations/pages/71650111.png

translations:

