url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=36807&d=0&a=1
id:	36807
title:	The guid to all evil
author:	Kene Emekpo
artist:	Rob Owen
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/36807.png
desc:	Ananda gets forced to work at her grandpas antique store. And trouble awaits

page_text:

P1	Ananda found herself crying in the bathroom after finding out her parents were sending her to Paris to work at her grandpas antique store. It was nobody's fault but herself for starting that fight that happened last night.
P2	Her bags were packed for her early flight tomorrow morning. She had never experienced something more terrifiyng in her whole eighteen years of existence. As she hoped on board for her 7:00am flight her legs were shaking.Ananda
P3	found her heart beating so fast that she nearly passed out. As the plane landed in Paris she stepped out in fear. She took a train to her grandfather's neighborhood and walked the rest of the way to his house. He was waiting outside for
P4	her. He welcomed her in and showed her her room she then began to unpack her bags and setteled in. Her head started thumping as she began to think about how her first day of work was going to be tomorrow. She went for a walk to clear out
P5	her head. Once she returned back to her grandpas house she ate a slice of pizza. After along day she went to bed. "Wakey, wakey," her grandpa shouted. Ananda got a big shock. "It's 6:00am,"she yelled." The early bird gets the worm" he said
P6	"It's time for work" he said. "At 6:00am" she replied with shock. No you just have to get ready. While Ananda was in the shower her grandpa made breakfast. She arrived at work and began to clean. She  went into the storage room to get the
P7	the cleaning supplies. She looks to the right and an old record player catches her eye. She picked it up and sees a red button behind it so she decides to push it. She sees a secret door. She places her hand and on the cold door knob and
P8	then pushes the door opened but what she doesn't realise is that it is filled with dark souls. Black cloud like things rush out of the room there is fear in her eyes as she walkes into the room. There is a skeleton sitting on a chair with a
P9	book labled the guide to all evil. She picked it up and shoved it in her top she walked out of the room and told her grandpa that she was sick so her grandpa let her go home. She went into her room and began to read the book.
P10	I heard the front door open so i quickly hid the book. It was my grandpa,he told me that someone went through the secret door in the storage room. He said that they realised the spirit and stole a very important book. "Oh no he said.
P11	We are in brave danger. My heart was pounding. I tried to tell him that it was me but i couldn't. Imagine how much trouble i would be in if i tell him. He left my room and i brought the book out of where i hid it.I read the book to see if
P12	anything would help but it didn't. I ended up giving him the book but it didn't help he was still worried.If those souls find us they will kill us. The only way they won't if is we sacrifice our most valuable treasure. We walked back to
P13	to the antique store and put the book back were i found it we placed our most valuable thing on it and called opon the spirits the came to us and a stong wind blew us out the door. The door then quickly shut. And everything went back to
P14	normal,except for the fact i still work at the antique store.

images:

illustrations/pages/26091.png

translations:

