url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=36889&d=0&a=1
id:	36889
title:	A Breathe Of Freedom
author:	
artist:	Seren Carrill
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/36889.png
desc:	A story of friendship

page_text:

P1	Table Of Contents@1.House@2.Escape@3.A breath at a time@4.Freedom
P2	House@I woke up and a human picked me up, I was in a bear trap. "Woof, woof!" I spoke and I whined as I was taken to a log square. I was happy that trap was off, "I got you!" The human said. We went into the cabin,  and set on a low table.
P3	I licked her face and jumped onto the bed she gave me, after she gave me food ofcourse, I slept by her and I felt her get off, I looked up and she made food its morning already? I thought to myself smelling the food and coming over eating.
P4	I hated doors a lot, "Aarf! Woooof!" I was scratching the door hard trying to get in the room she was in, she said, "Not now pup!" And I left into the living room, onto the couch and curled up to sleep, she walked in after an hour smiling.
P5	As I looked at her she had such kind, blue eyes and she was caring I heard knocks as I slept and she opened the door, she closed it hard making me jump, "Woof!" I spoke startled. I looked at her with sad eyes she pet me and closed her eyes.
P6	Escape@As she walked outside an hour has passed and the door was open I ran out to find her barking but nothing called out. Where is she? I thought sadly walking farther into the forest. I heard howling and lowered into the ground.
P7	I ran around the forest and saw a shadow, "Whine" I whined and saw another dog, "Woof! Woof!" The wolf said to follow her and I did. Soon we were at a den full of other wolves, "Woof?" I started feeling wierd, "Were am I?" I spoke human!
P8	"Hi!" said another dog, "I'm Bingo! This is Buck!" She said pointing to another dog by her with her tail. "I'm Bud!" I said looking at them, they were taller than most dogs.I sniffed smelling something like dead rabbit a dog came.
P9	The dog had a dead rabbit, "Fresh kill." The elderly dog said putting it down, and went back with other dogs and a moose lay between them. "And some food for winter and today." She looked at me and looked back, "A pup? He's cute." She said.
P10	A breathe at a time@I was asleep in the den with warm bodies and fluffy furr, I missed my old owner, I'll find her, my dream was her in a cage and me saving her. I woke up by the smell of food and got out and ate with the others.
P11	They left and I had to stay with the rest of the pups we had two pack members protecting us one feeding us the other fighting, well the both fought the enemies, I was happy but still thought of my owner, her name was Lilly. Were did she go?
P12	As the butterflies disappeared, the birds stopped chirping, and the grass was white. As I walked out I saw flakes coming down I stuck out my tongue and the snow gently came down on my tongue. I always thought of Lilly. I was picked up.
P13	I was in the den, "Hey! What was that for?" I asked. The dog who picked me up said, "Bears will come out though. That's what." I lay down and played with the other pups.
P14	Freedom@After winter passed The birds chirped, "Spring~ Spring is here~" I was larger and was out of the pack but we were allied I went out to find my mate for a pack. We waved goodbye crying and hugging. As I walked I wanted to find Lilly.
P15	I found a mate and we went to find Lilly, I learned hunting, our enemies, and food we can eat. A bear was near us and I crouched we jumped on it and it ran away we found a den near a scent I knew, "Lilly! She was here!" I said to my mate.
P16	He wagged, "Yay! Lilly!" She looked at me, "Who is Lilly...?" I laughed a silly laugh, "She found me when I was young." We walked in the den and slept we heard crickets but didn't care. We slept happily together.
P17	I took breathes at a time.@Freedom@I was free at last I was happy but we would find Lilly, I promised myself I would. As we followed the scent we crossed a river, a bear, and a human.
P18	I wasn't use to this place yet, I found where they kept Lilly it was locked, "Door." I looked annoyed the door creaked open and we jumped in and found Lilly grabbing her and running.
P19	We brought her to the den and we had pups and the pups grew up to join our pack, the other pups I was raised with for the couple years joined we were unallied and attacked by our family the elderly named Blue helped with Buck and Bingo.

images:

illustrations/pages/75040201.png

translations:

