url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=36904&d=0&a=1
id:	36904
title:	School begins today
author:	Zakiyya  Banda
artist:	Sina Streule, Monge Tlaka, Catherine Groenewald, Venolin Keanan Govender and Wiehan de Jager
lang:	English
level:	Longer paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/36904.png
desc:	Kids preparing for their first day back at school.

page_text:

P1	Good morning mom, good morning dad. Paul and Kim Dent are up in a good time this morning. School begins today. It's the end of the holiday. They enjoy having holidays and the enjoy school too. Have your breakfast now, says Mrs Dent to Paul and Kim. Dad is having his breakfast, He is in a hurry this morning. You need to hurry too.
P2	You are going to school by bus, I'm sorry you cannot go by car this morning, say Mr Dent, but I must be off by seven o'clock. I like to ride in the bus, says Kim. So do I, says Paul. I like to sit by the window. I like to ring the bell at the bus stop, says Kim. Mr Dent puts on his jacket. The key of the car is in his pocket. Well, he says, it's a nice sunny morning. Have a happy day at school. Goodbye. Goodbye dad.
P3	Is it time to get ready now? Kim looks at the clock. Yes it is, says Mrs Dent. I can dress myself, say Kim. So can I, say Paul. They run to get ready for school. Kim puts on her school dress. It has a pocket and a belt. She puts on her white socks and black shoes. The white socks are new. They are a present from her gran. Do you have a handkerchief Kim? Asks her mother. Yes thank you mom, say Kim. It's in the pocket of my dress.
P4	Paul puts on his school shirt and socks. He has a belt and shorts. He puts on his grey socks and black shoes. His grey socks are new too. They are a present from gran. I must not forget my handkerchief, he says. I left one out for you says his mother. Here it is. You must put it in your shirts pocket, or it will get lost. Now you must pack your school bags, are they ready for school?
P5	My school bag is ready, says Paul. Look here's my pencil. Here's my book. My crayons are in this pocket. My pencil, crayons and book is in my bag too, says Kim. Mrs Dent comes from the kitchen, here's your lunch boxes, she says. Do you want an apple or some figs with your lunch? Oh an apple, says Paul. Some figs for me please, says Kim, some nice soft figs. She and Paul put their lunch boxes in their school bags.
P6	Come now says Mrs Dent. It is time to go to the bus stop. You must not miss the bus. Kim puts on her hat. It has a band and badge on it. Paul puts on his grey cap. It has a badge on it too. They carry their school bags. You look smart, says Mrs Dent, as she waves goodbye.
P7	Look, Hilton is at the bus stop. He is going to school for the first time. His mother is with him. Hilton looks very smart in his new shirt and pants. His socks, shoes, cap with the badge are all new as well. Good morning Mrs Mills, says Kim. Hello Hilton, says Paul. Are you glad you going to school for the first time? Oh yes, says Hilton.This is my new school bag, granny sent it to me. I can lock it with this little key.
P8	Did you have a good holiday? Asks Mrs Mills. Yes we did, says Kim. We went on a camp, we had a tent with us. We had lots of fun. Yes, says Paul. A camping holiday is fun. I want to go camping for the next holiday too. What did you do Hilton? We had a lot of fun too, says Hilton. We went on an airplane to see granny. It went high and very fast. It went up in the clouds. I have a picture of it. Here it is. Look at it's big tail.
P9	Look here comes the bus, says Mrs Mills. In we go. Paul, Kim and Hilton sit at the back window. They like sitting there. What a lot there is to see on the bus ride to school. A lorry and a van go by. Lots of cars go by. There is Jeff. He is getting a lift in this dad's car. There is Sally. She is going along with her brother and sister. Watch Kim, says Paul. Hurry it's time to ring the bell now. We must get out at the next stop.
P10	Look mom, there is the school, says Hilton. It is a very big school. Yes, says Mrs Mills, what a lot of boys and girls there are. Come let's go in, we're just in time.@@The End

images:

illustrations/pages/11657.png
illustrations/pages/11674.png
illustrations/pages/13820.png
illustrations/pages/13817.png
illustrations/pages/7923.png
illustrations/pages/7924.png
illustrations/pages/13822.png
illustrations/pages/28200101.png
illustrations/pages/10803.png
illustrations/pages/11461.png
illustrations/pages/13855.png

translations:

