url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=36949&d=0&a=1
id:	36949
title:	Smile in the Sky
author:	Elton Kgomotso Mamyela
artist:	Jesse Breytenbach
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/36949.png
desc:	Kaylas kite flew so high all the people of the farm saw it

page_text:

P1	It was school closing week for the December holidays and the teachers wanted to say goodbye to the children in a fun and memorable way.
P2	Then it was decided that there will be ice cream, games, a Kite flying competition and a lot of fun on the day the schools close.
P3	The children were all excited, they all loved ice cream and playing games and having fun. Kayla could not wait to get home and tell her parents.
P4	She hurried home, and while only halfway through the door, excitedly exclaimed "mom there'll be ice cream and kite flying on Friday, I also want to fly a kite."
P5	Her mom smiled and said "Good afternoon to you too, and yes you can fly a kite but you will have to ask dad to make you one."
P6	"ooh, daddy can make a kite? I can't wait" Kayla said excitedly.@Mom answered "of course he can, they used to make them while growing up, in fact they made most of their toys themselves."
P7	Kayla wondered if her dad could teach her how to make a kite. She waited for her dad until she fell asleep on the sofa.
P8	In the morning before going to school, Kayla rushed into her parent's bedroom and excitedly asked "dad can you teach me how to make a kite so I can fly it at school on Friday."
P9	Her dad smiled and said "alright, I'll teach you, on your way home from school, bring me dry dandelion reeds, I'll have the string, scissors and plastic ready."
P10	Kayla couldn't wait for her trip back home, there was a place that grew long grass by the side of the road, "That's where I'll get my reeds" she thought to herself with a dreamy smile on her face.
P11	She was the first one out of the school gates, she picked her Reeds, made sure they were long and straight and not too heavy just as dad instructed.
P12	"Ready soldier?" Dad asked, and Kayla jokingly saluted her dad with a laughter filled "Sir, yes I am ready Sir!", After sharing a laugh. Her dad spread out the plastic and placed the two reeds in a cross shape.
P13	Kayla's dad tied the reeds together with a string where they met, and also attached them to the plastic with pieces of string. Then a nice kite shape appeared.
P14	Dear then said "it's time to cut out our kite now." Kayla wanted to do it but dad reminded her children should not be handling scissors.
P15	Kayla's dad then cut out a tail, fastening pieces of plastic together to make little ribbons. Then he tied a long string on the sticks and told Kayla to try flying her kite.
P16	They went outside and to Kayla's excitement, the more she unrolled the string, the higher the kite went. Then dad told her to bring it inside again so they decorate it.
P17	Dad took his marker and Kayla drew a big smiley face on the kite. When Friday came, she took her kite to school, careful not to damage it. It was big, almost as tall as she was.
P18	The school was loud, the children were excited, some kites were red, some were blue, green and purple. Some were square and some diamond shaped like Kayla's.
P19	After having ice cream, it was time for the kite competition. The children went to the sports field, the sky was like a rainbow with all the different colours of the kites.
P20	But Kayla's stood out, it caught people's attention because it was smiling at everyone. The children pointed at it. Kayla wanted her kite to fly the highest, so she kept unrolling the thread.
P21	Kayla's kite went higher and higher, it went so high the thread snapped. It flew all over the farm, Kayla was sad at first but when she got home, her parents and neighbours told her they saw her kite.
P22	People came to her house and all told her "we saw your smile in the sky Kayla, thank you." Realising she made many people happy, Kayla was happy again and have her dad a long, long hug.

images:

illustrations/pages/9850.png

translations:

