url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=36953&d=0&a=1
id:	36953
title:	Princess Mellidora
author:	Joy Abigael
artist:	Brian Wambi, Salim Kasamba, Rob Owen, Kenneth Boyowa Okitikpi, Joy Abigael, Offei Tettey Eugene, Jacob Kono, Wiehan de Jager and Jesse Breytenbach
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/36953.png
desc:	My story is about a prince who finds love and thought he would never. The love he finds is really unique its all about

page_text:

P1	Long ago when handheld showers were still not invented or have any significance to this story or whatsoever, there once was a a prince named Tyler who lived in the Happy kingdom.
P2	Tyler was a very talented prince.He knew how to play all the instruments except the guitar.He was charming, caring and kind to his kingdom and everyone around him.Looks, charming and skills Tyler had it all except for he didn't have a bride
P3	Tyler's father was worried about this because his son will one day become king and take over.Tyler was called by his father and was told that he invited some princesses from all over the kingdom for a picnic so that he can choose one as a w
P4	"Go to your aunt's house", said the king."Why father?"asked prince Tyler."Why?, because your aunt helped your mother find the best man",said the king,"me". Tyler hesitated for a bit but then later agreed.
P5	When he arrived to his aunt's house,he was received with a humble greeting and was asked why did he go there.He said that his father had sent him for her to advise him, who is the right person to choose as a wife.
P6	All his aunt said was"give your heart to someone who laughs to their own miseries and cries on others pain". Tyler went back home confused."What a strange advise",he said to himself.As soon as he reached the palace, he could not sleep that
P7	He eagerly waited for morning to come wondering what fate would be.Finally morning came and Tyler was up and ready for the picnic.He saw carriages from his window, decorated with flowers coming in the palace gates.
P8	Princesses from all over the kingdom emerged from the carriages. They looked stunning as well as beautiful.Firstly, they were welcomed warmly in the palace and shown around.They decided to take a stroll to the palace gardens.
P9	The princesses rode in the carriages while the prince and some guards who were very good friends with the prince, rode from the horse.After a while, the carriages hit a stone and all the princesses in the carriage fell to the ground on mud.
P10	On hearing the cries of the princesses, prince Tyler ran quickly to save them but amongst the crying princesses, there was one who laughed.Tyler helped them up one by one but his eyes were fixed on the laughing princess.
P11	They were taken to their rooms and clean themselves up, meanwhile prince Tyler asked one of the servants who the laughing princess was, the servants said to him that it was princess Mellidora of the cheerful kingdom.
P12	When they finished cleaning themselves, they went to dance and enjoy themselves.Prince Tyler was looking for princess Mellidora amongst them. All of a sudden they bumped into each other and were startled."May I have this dance", asked the p
P13	"Yes,I'd love to", replied princess Mellidora.They had a great time together and later that day, they went to meet each other by the lake."Hahaha,the way we fell into the mud was hilarious, wasn't it?"said Mellidora.
P14	"I wish I had seen our faces the way it looked like when we were falling, hahaha", she added."I'm just glad you are all okay', said prince Tyler."You dance beautifully",he said."Easy their prince, don't fall in love with me", said Mellidora
P15	"Cause I won't marry you", she added."Buu-"as soon as prince Tyler was about to say anything princess Mellidora left. Tyler did not sleep that night, he was thinking about what Mellidora said.
P16	"Why did she say that?""Why did she come here if she didn't want to marry me?"Such questions criss-crossed his mind."Anyways there's still the other part of aunt's console that needs to be considered.All the princesses had woken up and read
P17	They went on to the compound with their horses and rode them happily. A grandma was passing by with some eggs and since the princesses were not paying attention to her they broke all the eggs,all except for one, Mellidora.
P18	She comforted the old lady and helped her with the eggs. Prince Tyler was watching this from a distance.When Mellidora turned around there were tears filled in her eyes and that's when prince Tyler remembered her aunt's advise.
P19	"Sh-, she is the one",he said as he went and helped her with the old lady.Later in the evening, they met again by the lake."I don't know why you said I shouldn't fall in love with you but falling in love isn't controlled", said Tyler
P20	"It's you I love but I respect your decision and won't ask you to marry me,all I want to know is why you asked me that",he added."Tyler I like you maybe love even but we need to know each other first, walk into each other's life", said Mell
P21	"Seeing you are a prince you wouldn't want that, would you?"she added."Nonsense we can do that", said prince Tyler.And so they did what they agreed to do and fell deeply in love with each other.They soon got married and lived happily ever a

images:

illustrations/pages/76430101.png
illustrations/pages/7986.png
illustrations/pages/25085.png
illustrations/pages/9637.png
illustrations/pages/25953.png
illustrations/pages/18760.png
illustrations/pages/18767.png
illustrations/pages/7976.png
illustrations/pages/9853.png
illustrations/pages/26436.png
illustrations/pages/27121.png
illustrations/pages/25949.png

translations:

