url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=36998&d=0&a=1
id:	36998
title:	Lindiwe and her grandmother
author:	Book Bus Zambia
artist:	Rob Owen, Jesse Breytenbach and Edwin  Irabor
lang:	English
level:	Longer paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/36998.png
desc:	Lindiwe is an orphan who lives with her grandmother. She has a very beautiful voice which catches the attention of a stranger who gets her to participate in  a singing competition. Will Lindiwe win the competition?

page_text:

P1	On the edges of the Kafue River, was a small village called Kasupa. In this village, there lived a little girl and her grandmother.  The girl's name was Lindiwe and she was a beautiful girl. Lindiwe lost her parents when she was just two months old. However, she was loved by her grandmother so much that she could not miss her parents. Her grandmother provided her with all she needed and Lindiwe's beauty was projected.
P2	Lindiwe was called a super chocolate girl by many people because of her beauty.  She was a dark brown beautiful girl, with long curly hair. She was lovely and talented with a very sweet and beautiful voice.  Lindiwe loved singing and dancing, she also loved watching the sunset over the river while dancing to the African drum beat with her friends and family.
P3	One bright morning, Lindiwe decided to visit the next village across the river. As she was about to leave the house happily singing, she saw a stranger  talking with her grandmother.  Lindiwe's grandmother sat her down and explained to her that the stranger thought she had an amazing voice and wanted her to participate in a talent search competition.  @Lindiwe  took part, won the competition and was given lots of money, a Gold Cup and was awarded a big singing contract.
P4	The sweet voice which Lindiwe was talented with made her and her grandmother to leave Kafue banks and flew over to London.  Lindiwe had only seen planes flying over her hut back at her village; she had never imagined that one day her grandmother and she would be privileged to fly.  Her excitement superseded her; she jumped up and down as she boarded her flight. Eleven hours later, she disembarked at Heathrow Airport.
P5	Her grandmother and she proceeded to board a tube which was a super fast train to London town. The two enjoyed the scenery as they cruised to the town centre. Lindiwe could not believe she was here, she was really here! It was as beautiful as she had always imagined. Their tube came to a halt at their station and her grandmother and she stepped out.
P6	After staying in London for couple of years, Lindiwe and the grandmother decided that they should go back home, as the saying goes, "home is home though it may never be so homely". When they got back, they built a hotel where the village house used to be. The hotel had a lot of visitors as it was near the river. The hotel business was doing very well especially during holidays. Lindiwe and her grandmother were really happy for what they
P7	had become. At times they could remember the old days. Later, Lindiwe got married to a God fearing person. Her grandmother was able to see her great grand children. She died a very happy person at the age of 89.

images:

illustrations/pages/25385.png
illustrations/pages/9608.png
illustrations/pages/9493.png
illustrations/pages/25389.png
illustrations/pages/11461.png
illustrations/pages/9850.png
illustrations/pages/9842.png
illustrations/pages/26461.png

translations:

