url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=37483&d=0&a=1
id:	37483
title:	The girl who knew her self worth ..
author:	Sinazo Mzonyana
artist:	Jesse Breytenbach, Ntandokazi Layla, Sinazo Mzonyana, Rob Owen, Brian Wambi and Offei Tettey Eugene
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/37483.png
desc:	A special book for Teenagers....it is important to know your self worth as a lady and be dedicated in what you love dont ever feel any less of a women just strive for your success 🤗
              Thank you..

page_text:

P1	There was this girl who was about 18 years of age...Her name is Buhle she lived in a small rural area where poverty is well known and this place should be called the place of lost dream's.@Buhle lived in this place since the day...
P2	she was born ....and yet she had no friends what so ever in this place .@no one understood her, other girls would say she is full of her self and day dreams a lot .@Just because she did not care about what others say behind her back and...
P3	what they actually thought of her ,she knew what's worth it and not. @One day buhle was sent to fetch water to the near stream..it was a sunny day @As her mother was preparing to go  and look for work where she had to walk 4 miles away..
P4	from their  little  flat painted peach and surrounded by a row of  beautiful flowers that made their flat light up. @as buhle was sent to fetch water after finishing her chores she went straight to the stream and on her way she came ...
P5	across a crowd of girls who were laughing out loud and you could tell that they were gossiping as there faces were cracked up with smiles and laughter that is forced .@So as she passes through them she greet them nicely and they replied...
P6	As she was about to turn and continue going where she was sent ...she heard a voice that was trying to be sweet and nicer . It was one of the girls called londiwe was calling her "Buhle Buhle don't you wanna come with us to the party late ?
P7	As Buhle was confused as she was she did not want to be rude and  she knew very well that those girls are not the kind of people she would want to build friendship with so she had to quickly come up with a nicer way of saying no.
P8	so buhle replied " I would like to join you guys but i have many chores for today . @ They all replied  "That's  ouk buhle next time then bye  .. @As soon as she turned and faced the other direction she heard a mumbling and then....
P9	a big laughter...buhle didn't care so she kept going and at the stream she finds one of her neighbours who is an old granny and there were rumours that were spreading around  about herhow grumpy and heartless she is but buhle did not care..
P10	about the rumours that were spreading around...she politely greet'ed the old lady as she was about to pick up a bucket full of water so buhle approached instantly and helped the lady so that she does not pour water on her self .
P11	This lady did not smile and did not even say thank you  she just looked at buhle and walked away.Buhle did not mind she carried her own bucket and went home after arriving ,her mother also arrived she looked worried and buhle could tell..
P12	even though she was acting okay in front of her ...so she genuinely told her "everything will be fine mother "and saw her mother smiling .@   They ate supper had few laughs together and went straight to bed.
P13	The next day early in the morning buhle's mother woke up very early continuing her search for job...she had prepared a porridge for buhle so she woke her up and told her she was on her way to look for job again so buhle wished her a good..
P14	luck and gave her Mother a kiss ...as she went outside  with a smile on her face she started starring at the sky it was blue as the shirt she was wearing even air and breeze was so calm.the weather was just perfect to her
P15	She started singing a little and saw the same girls walking in numbers and Nontle was there passing by her house you could swear that  they were going to war  as their faces were full of anger and hate ..they were just looking for a fight
P16	Buhle continued with her singing as they began shouting "Hey there is the girl who daydreams a lot ..and they started laughing @Buhle continued ignoring them and did not say a word not because she was scared but because she knew whats..
P17	Right and wrong ...the old lady heard everything and she was watching at the time and impressed by buhle's behaviour.
P18	The next day buhle was sent to buy cabbage and soap to a near shop and the shop owner was known in this village as being rich  but being rich mean't nothing to buhle if you look at other people down...this guy was also known for being ...
P19	rude to people except for young girls about buhle's age ...so buhle bought these stuff and the money was not enough she had to buy one thing ..the guy says to her "you know if you could marry me i could give you everything you want ".
P20	Buhle ignored him ...the guy again said "what is your name beautiful lady? ..I've never seen you around here before .@Buhle replies "My name is Buhle and said nothing more she was keen on leaving as she felt uncomfortable.
P21	The guy says "don't forget my proposal @Buhle walked away and saw the other girl Nontle who was comming to the shop .@Nontle looks at buhle as if she stole something from her .and she says "ooh now you are flirting with my man ?@Buhle ...
P22	Buhle looked at her and says "he is all yours don't worry and she continues walking. @Nontle  nodes and went to the shop and started to get all cosy with a guy who is 52years of age .
P23	In the afternoon buhle's was on her way to the dam to do a washing there were two girls walking behind her gossiping it was Nelisa and kate ...kate was telling Nelisa what Nontle did to get the money and they suggested it was a good way..
P24	Of making money...so one day the village stood still when the girl who is 19 years of age was found in a body bag dumped near the forest with bruises on her face  and that girl was Nontle and police started investigating and said the girl..
P25	Was beaten to death but no signs of rape at all and police suspected a boyfriend of his which was an old man from the shop and evidence was found that pointed to him so he was sentenced to jail immediately....everyone was in shock
P26	The very same day Buhle got an bursary to study abroad as a respected  lawyer .@Other girls were impressed by buhle and wished if they also day dreamed like her and did not let anything stood in their way and if they were true to themselves
P27	they also could be talking about studying abroad but now they are stuck in their miserable village that is called the lost of dreams.
P28	(After 10 year's buhle came back to her village as a successful business women and a respected lawyer her Mother was proud of her as much as the community was....she changed her village by building community centres where teenagers would ..
P29	Be motivated and know their self worth as the young generation...and it does not matter where you come from what matters is how you cope with the environment around you and set boundaries for yourself as much as you love yourself..
P30	(Those were buhle's motivation word's to all teenager's out there )@Don't involve yourself in things that seem good for now .

images:

illustrations/pages/18870201.png
illustrations/pages/18870202.png
illustrations/pages/26436.png
illustrations/pages/9850.png
illustrations/pages/9842.png
illustrations/pages/18767.png
illustrations/pages/18870203.png
illustrations/pages/26091.png

translations:

