url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=37501&d=0&a=1
id:	37501
title:	Chico's Dress.
author:	Sibabalwe Sidlayiya
artist:	Sibabalwe Sidlayiya and Jesse Breytenbach
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/37501.png
desc:	Story of a little girl lacking confidence but finds it with the help of her mother.

page_text:

P1	In the small town of Zanobia lived Chico and her mother, mama Zakisa, their home was filled with love and lots of laughter and their relationship was great at they were all each other had.
P2	While Chico was doing homework with her mother she told her about the party she had been invited to and that she wanted a new dress, he mother replied"Chico I don't know why you think you need a new dress when you have a lot of dresses.
P3	Chico was practically begging her mother for the dress and the over dramatic Chico saying:"I NEED a dress mom or else I will die!" her mother laughed "You won't die I'm sure of that but okay since you are dramatic but only one dress Chici"
P4	On Saturday went to the mall and they looked high and low,left and right but Chico couldn't find a dress that fit her and she started crying and said:"I know why I can't find a dress that can fit me it's because I am not skinny enough mom"
P5	Her mother quickly reassured her "Of course not Chichi, you are beautiful just the way you are" but still Chico was not convinced she still thought that she was ugly just because she was a little on the chubby side.
P6	As the days went by Chico still felt down about not finding a dress and kept comparing herself to other girls at school and she would feel even worse and she didn't want to go to the party any as she thought people were going to tease her.
P7	But on the day of the party her mother came with a beautiful lovely purple dress that was sure to fit Chico perfectly she called Chico"Chichi sweety come her I have a surprise for you!" Chico replied" Mom I am not going to the party!"
P8	She eventually went to her mother and saw the beautiful dress and she fit it on and it fit her perfectly "Wow, mom I love it" she said happily her mother said:"You are beautiful my Chico bean and I want you to always remember that and to ne
P9	Feel like you are never enough you are always enough the way you are my sweet baby" and from then onwards Chico always felt confident in herself and never compared herself because she knew she was special in her own way.@The end.

images:

illustrations/pages/9853.png
illustrations/pages/55100101.png
illustrations/pages/55100102.png
illustrations/pages/55100103.png
illustrations/pages/9853.png
illustrations/pages/9842.png

translations:

