url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=37851&d=0&a=1
id:	37851
title:	The Unsung Story
author:	Kezang Wangdi
artist:	Kezang Wangdi
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/37851.png
desc:	You might have just few years or months just to say sorry or I love you to your love ones before it turns to your past to cherish

page_text:

P1	Orphan has a deep mean with silent happiness. Yes I am kezang wangdi the son of late wangchuck and late Tawmo...both of my parents are sharshop,one of the local language in Bhutan.
P2	My late father was an employee in ministry of education said by one of my friend because I lost my father when I was just 2 to 3 months old. I had no idea what's going around me.
P3	My mother was beautiful where I still remember her innocent smile and simply old fashion young girl taking care of her very little small child of hers and by the way my parents did a love marriage.
P4	My late father was alcoholic where I have been said that he went to tour outside the country and never came back...still today we have no idea weather he is death or alive rather then considering him as death only.
P5	I had never been with him and don't have any idea about his love to me and my late mother,instead I never got chance to know him. My late mother was a dump women pardon me to say this but she was young and never had any idea with situation.
P6	She was alone for me and her emotions where she needs to move on and yes I am glad that she moved on but look at my luck and hers too we got another alcoholic police man as his life partner and my step father.
P7	I never called him father but had respect for him as he some how managed my late mother with emotions.
P8	My childhood experience got worst after his alcoholic behaviour got us both in his punch and slap, this is the main reason I never do alcohol and I always tell myself and remind my self about this when ever there is alcohol on my table now.
P9	I still remember how he use to act after staring at me and then fights with my mother. If I was there back then I could have thrown him with my left hand with no hesitation at all. I know how my mother suffered with blue eyes with deep cut.
P10	I had nothing left to do then just watch her bashed up until he is out of the house. When ever I get back to those situations I feel for my mother and wish every mother not to go through this face.
P11	She never told anything about this to our grandparents nor had any courage to go against him after all who is running the house.
P12	If I have that one chance to go back and talk to my mother, I just want to hug her and say I am here which could only be in my imagination. I have no words to express her than just cherish that awful moment I had with her.
P13	My mother If You have been with me till now, I would do every possible way to make you happy and give everything you want. Now I have just our past blur memories to cherish then to do nothing.
P14	I pray that let me be your Good son for one more time to just make a better room for us to breath. Today I could only say is that I miss you and just misses you more. Every time you are in my thought with bad and good time.
P15	I would never repay you in my entire life, I am really sorry that I could not be that arms to hug you when you are emotionally down, I am sorry for everything yet you came forward to anyone just for me.
P16	My tears have your shadows that misses you. I still remember you in that white hospital bed with shaved haircut, wires connected every where to your body and your blur eyes full of tears trying to speak.
P17	I wise I could have hear your last words to me. I have seen You suffer a lot and still fighting for me to stay till I could stand on my own feet. I will never forget this in my entire life . I love you and I missed you everyday.
P18	later it was my step father and her man who she choose to be with him for her entire life that made her hospitalised as he had hit her with one of the hard thing on her head which made here sick.We later knew that she had a brain tumor.
P19	I was rushed to her when I was in 1 standard because my mother had a last wise to just see me.
P20	I know the pain you had now and  Yes she left me with unsaid words and back then I was very small so I couldn't have any emotions then just see her burn into ashes but when I think now my eyes gets blur thinking about her.
P21	Every mother's Day are celebrated with happiness but I cherish the past and just make sure that I say her that how much I love her towards the sky. And when ever I look up there has been always one or two stars twinkling at me with full hop
P22	I have nothing left to do thing rather then this. From then I was raised by my grandparents of my mother like there own son.
P23	I was given every opportunities that other had which I could never forget what they have done for Me. When I first started by school I just had no idea about so called parents.
P24	I never knew now who should I called my parents after them, everybody have their own parents after our school where I was always picked by my bother(grandparents only son) or that one teacher who lived near our house.
P25	My standard went 1 to 2 then 2 to 4 by passing years where there was school meetings and programs that made me confused.
P26	Every student had their own parents attending their child's share and with me there was sometimes it's uncle then if possible bother then with aunty.
P27	I had no parents to attend my parents meeting and had tuff time to write my parents name because I had non. I was ashamed to go to school and fill up the school forms.
P28	My life was never easy if I think now...my schooling days  have always reminded me that I was orphan and then back at home there was no one for this nowhere kid.
P29	I was always reminded by my friends and other people that I am orphan, i had no reaction then just smile and feel their emotions towards me. Childhood are interesting if we had a good toys to show and to make more friends.
P30	In the world of child toy is everything to a kid, toys are worth of 1000 friends and here is Your poor boy without any toy....just sitting near them and watch them play.
P31	I still remember that I use to borrow toys and play like I had a time limit. I always got sad seeing them with new toys where I even didn't have a small one to play.
P32	that is where I could feel and know the emotions. I never got one from anyone nor any one gave me because I am an orphan boy need to work to earn one. I am not that pampered child where your demands are fulfilled with every moment.
P33	I am a child where I even didn't have birthday celebration but attained many. I wanted to have that same celebration like my friend but who is going to do that for me....they have their parents ...do I have ....?
P34	I was a silent kid never had anything from the beginning and always had a 1000 desire.
P35	I worked at construction side to get my school dress it's not because my grandparents couldn't effort it, I need to adapt to that kind of surface that I have to work inorder to have my desire fullfilled, it's me and only me to be by myself.
P36	Still now I never tell anyone that I am an orphan not because I feel shy to disclose this thing but I never wanted their pittyness towards me that's why I always tell them he is this or she is this ...they live there and all.
P37	because I know how I began my life and what will be the next step for me to answer their questions. Today I am here just with my bitter past and I always ask myself that why I was like this
P38	I never compromise with my desire now. I eat what ever I like to eat or I go where ever I want to be ..... because I had a lot...........back then.
P39	Dear mother we both had no time to know each other well but I know how much you loved me and in return I can only say is that I miss you.
P40	wish You could be here with be to listen to my funny emotions and give me courage to hold on with every situation I deal. I wish to hear who much You are proud of me for being this real.
P41	I really have no words to express my feeling towards you my dear mother. I hope you are in better place now.@Your son is doing good with you blessings.
P42	And yes I miss you and love you infinite.@@This is my unsung story that will last for million trillion years with me.
P43	Thank you @Every present is beautiful and cheerful,every Human have there own will to set the future but there is nothing to be said or do to the past then just cherish emotionally.@@  ~ kezang wangdi

images:

illustrations/pages/77620101.png

translations:

