url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=37954&d=0&a=1
id:	37954
title:	They regret everything they do
author:	Maureen Jay Jimenez
artist:	Maureen Jay Jimenez
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/37954.png
desc:	Storybooks can be good to children even when we read we can imagine adventures. We can know u have adventure like travels. Read kids books or downlad ebooks to reach your kids mind.

page_text:

P1	Once upon a time, there was a family with a daughter. Their daugter's name was lily. They love here and treated her well. The next day, her mother was pregnant ans her mother she has another daughter. Instead,  she got a son.
P2	Their son's name was alex. They did not love alex. They love lily more than alex. But lily asked her parents why they did not love her brother. Her parents asked to skip this question. She accepted. When she saw alex. She played with him.
P3	She loves him more and always share. She always give him presents during his birthday and her parents not. They were angry at alex because she always spend time with him, even her friends. They were gonna make a plan.
P4	Their was to break one of he dolls and give the doll they broke to alex. Alex did not know why they gave him the broken doll. When lily was going upstairs to check on alex, she saw her doll! Her parents ask her that alex broke her doll.
P5	She thinks that alex broke it. She promised alex that she would not be mad at him. She said to her parents "i dont believe what you said, alex would never do that". Her parents got dissapointed and went downstairs to prepare dinner.
P6	When it was dinner time, lily ask alex, "alex, even if my family hate you i still love you. They hug. When their parents saw this. They regret everything they do. They told alex " alex im sorry that we hate you i love you already.
P7	Now, they took care both of them and played with them. The End

images:

illustrations/pages/66140401.png

translations:

