url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=37962&d=0&a=1
id:	37962
title:	Hey...I remember you
author:	Kemoni Alexander
artist:	Google .
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/37962.png
desc:	Two people meet again and ends up having dinner. The dinner goes wrong and a lady named Momo Yaoyorozu ends up running out. In the end  Shoto Todoroki comforts Momo. They end up dating. And in the future they have kids

page_text:

P1	BUMP! I fell onto the the ground, rain pouring from out of the sky. I look up and see a guy. "Are you okay!?". "Yes" I respond. I asked him what his name was."Shoto Todoroki". "Well thanks so much shoto todoroki". He helps me up and I bow.
P2	"Hey..wait!"I said. "Are you shoto Todoroki from UA years ago!?". He look into my eyes and smirked. "Long time no see" he said.
P3	He took me out for some steak. "Sooo what have you been doing every since  we got out of UA?" I asked. "Well I train to see if I can improve my power even more" he said. I asked him if we could have a little small battle after the dinner.
P4	"Sure but you have no change in winning". He giggled a bit. I've always had a crush on him every since we were pared in UA.I blushed a bit. "Hey momo, are you hot?"He asked."Yes, a bit.." I said. That's was a complete lie.
P5	I hid my face away from him. "You're not hot, you have a crush on me." He said "WHAT!?? NO NOT AT ALL!" I shouted in a nervous voice. The people got quiet and started at us. I was so embarrassed I rushed out of my seat and left.
P6	The rain hit on my pretty hard. My hair fell out of my ponytail. Todoroki come rushing out the doors. I was crying really hard. " Momo, there's no need to be embarrassed" he said trying to comfort me. "I'm going home.. the battles off..".
P7	I got up and was about to get inside of my car. "WAIT" todoroki shouted. He grabs me on my waist and I blush HARD. He leans in for a kiss. And I let him. I was pretty shocked. His lips were soft and warm. I must've turned red!
P8	When he looked at me he laughed, A LOT. "You're really red momo" he said. "Well I've had a crush on you every since UA"I said. "Me too.." he said. "You're hair looks nice down" He told me smiling. I was no longer crying.
P9	I felt so happy after he told me that. "You're really really REALLY beautiful Momo and courageous,smart,kind,and I love the way you get shy" He said looking deeply into my eyes. "Thats why I want you to be my girlfriend". I started crying.
P10	Not out of sadness this time. I was happy to hear that and said "ME? YOUR GIRLFREIND?!"I said in a shocking voice."Yes"he giggled. I went in for a kiss, and excepted.
P11	And now we have two beautiful twin baby boys.
P12	THE END

images:

illustrations/pages/81440201.png
illustrations/pages/81440202.png

translations:

