url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=37990&d=0&a=1
id:	37990
title:	The forest adventure series...
author:	Me/Lan Ji
artist:	Me/Lan Ji
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/37990.png
desc:	This book is my first on this app and took me a while but this app helped me more than anything else I tried. So if you would like to write I suggest you use this

page_text:

P1	This is a girl and her name is Ivy-Sky-Sage. She loves her forest as much as she loves her home. She goes to it every day after school and gases at it's beauty. She plays and has fun. Read on in order to find out more about her adventure!
P2	Ivy ran home from school and opened the door. "Mum mum!"she exclaimed with joy in her voice "I am going to play in the woods if that is ok." @"That's fine just be back at 6:00!" Her mother yelled back. Ivy skipped merrily to her forest.
P3	She walked around, jumped on river stones and had an amazing time. She looked around with a stern look on her face. She knew something was one hundred percent off so she kept walking to figure out what happened and what is off about it.
P4	CHAPTER 2@The book of truth@@Ivy looked around and she heard something russiling in the bushes. She muttered nervously," Who are you. Come out p-please." Then a tiny fox came out of the bushes and started smelling her. To him her smell was,
P5	safe and calming so he started following her and he was very enthusiastic that he found someone to stay with ( after all he is a young fox). She giggled and started playing games and searching for berries and fruit. The fox loved his fruit.
P6	She named her fox Rex and started looking to find what made her feel off about the place. She kept walking untill she found what she was looking for... She finally found it. It was a book but it was bigger like a mountain but thicker than,
P7	your average book. It was over two thousand pages and it consists of words from a language she never saw. It was not a language but really a lot of symbols she eyed it very confused. Her eyebrows were raised but she was still amused by it.
P8	"Wow! Look how cool that is Rex!", she told him overflowing with joy. She tried to turn a page but it was too big. As she was trying, a portal opened and sucked her and Rex in. It went pitch black. All she could hear were the sounds of,
P9	wind howling and glitter falling. She opened her eyes and was amazed by what she saw. She walked around and there was a sign that says walker's grove and she followed that path.
P10	"Woah this is amazing! Let's look for someone to help us," Ivy said in awe. The trees curled and twisted as if it were a maze. The flowers grew larger than five of the longest mushrooms on top of each other.
P11	They walked down the hill, since there was a small cottage which she thought had to have someone in it.. They didn't go down the hill by walking or running. No. They rolled. Rex was running right next to Ivy, who was getting dizzy rolling.
P12	Once they made it down, Ivy knocked the door and asked if anyone was there. Then an old lady opened the door and said,"Hello what do you need?" She was surprised and asked the lady if she could tell them where the portal was. The lady,
P13	replied,"Indeed I do. Just go behind the cottage and keep going straight until you see a sign that says The rose cavern."@The two went behind the cottage but there was no signs anywhere in the distance. Then, a sign appeared out of nowhere.
P14	"Wait that says rose cavern! Quick follow the sign!" She said barely being able to spit out her words. They followed the sign only for it to lead to a forest filled with roses. There were no dandelions,lilacs or even sunflowers.
P15	Chapter 3@The water dragon of the valley.@The two walked to the edge of the horizon only to see a river ( the first in a while) they ran up to it just to get a sip. Without realising, a dragon emerged out of the aquamarine waters.
P16	They ran as far as they could and as fast as their legs could carry them. Ivy was close to tears when the sea dragon tried to eat them alive. Wouldn't you cry if you were going to be eaten by a dragon? She is brave for not crying. Back to,
P17	the story. Rex started to whimper in fear. While they were running, they saw a sort of house. I say sort of because it was a mountainous mushroom home. The glow of the warm, luminous sun created an extra beautiful side of it. They jogged.
P18	there, as they knew that they had to hide there... Just as they were about to knock on the door, a mushroom looking figure opened the wooden door. She stood in utter shock and asked them," Are you okay? You look like you need help."
P19	Chapter 4@@"We don't mean to disturb you but we kinda have a water dragon chasing us," Ivy replied as calm as she could. " Could we please stay with you until it passed?"@"Of course! I'm Rosabelle or you could call me rose. Come on in now,"
P20	Rosabelle said trying to calm them down. They went in while Rose extinguished every light in the lanterns. Rose informed them, " He should be passing after a bit of time so do not worry!" They were all terrified but did not want to show it.
P21	"I think that he passed," she mumbled quieter than the mouse hiding under the table. " Stay here just in case though, we can not be one hundred percent sure..."@"Agreed it is too risky out there,could we stay till he is far past gone?" Ivy,
P22	replied almost silently. They slowly left the home and gave their goodbyes but they had to carry on with their quest... It was absolutely terrifying that they were about to be killed. All you could see was,
P23	resilience, pride and responsibility. They could not have made it so far without it though they must carry on. They were walking for what felt like days and as they were walking they came across a key.. It was golden with a splendid design.
P24	It felt like something that was really important so they took it with them. "Where do you think the key leads to?" Ivy questioned very interested. "Let's keep going!" They kept going for what felt like hours among hours but they did not,
P25	stop. Rex stopped stunned and started whimpering. "Rex what's wrong!" She started petting him and tried to calm him down. You would do the same right? Yes you would. No is the wrong answer! Back to the story. Rex started to calm and,
P26	stepped forward slowly. He was still unable to be calm to the point where he could be cheerful. They saw a vague tall thing in the distance but they were not able to tell what it was. They ran to there sight hoping for something that is,
P27	safe, since all the caos that has been happening lately. With that they went and realised it was a tree. A tree in an enormous forest filled with birds, plants and more but they were still wondering what might happen next.
P28	They went through the forest, but they felt uneasy about it so they kept an eye out for anything that could be unusual. They must of been wrong, because there was nothing at all. They reached the end of that forest but there was a small,
P29	man but a goblin. He was wearing a mailman outfit and had a label on his hat saying "GOBLIN MESSENGER". Apparently, they had mail? They did not have any house here so how does he know them. They were very confused so they asked him what he,
P30	had and why to us and maybe you got the wrong people. I can go on for days but you would throw your device across the room and say you hate me so I am not going to. He simply said," Are you Ivy-Sky-Sage? Because this is for you."
P31	Ivy answered,"Yes I am Ivy-Sky-Sage but who is it from?"@"The book o' truth," he said as polite as possible.
P32	Chapter 5@Ivy wondered many thoughts like: the book of truth? What is that? Can it help me get home? Is it a trap? One took over the rest... Will this do the trick? @They saw a note on the edge of the box and it said: Those who read this,
P33	this letter will experience something noone never felt before. It will be included on your trip so do not worry about it... O' those who take a glimpse at this note will witness it. Look out for the book of curses it will not allow,
P34	you to leave. Yes it will be tough but you can do this..."
P35	Chapter 6@"WHAT. WHAT IS THIS? WHAT DO THEY MEAN?" Ivy was very terrified at the thought that there is a book that can trap her in this land. She took deep breaths and opened the package. It was a bracelet and some oddly shaped stones,
P36	very oddly shaped stones. They were red redder than rubies, green greener than the ripest green apple, blue bluer than the sky and yellow brighter than the sun... She was confused. A bracelet? Some colourful stones? What was this all for?
P37	Then she heard an ear piercing howl. It was REX. He was stuck in nearby bush unable to move. He was in pain ,as it was a thorn bush. He howled and howled and howled just trying to get out. Ivy tried pulling him out but he is just too,
P38	stuck to be able to get out. @"Hush Hush it will be okay don't worry I'll try get you out," she said comforting him. "I'm sure I can find a stick or something sharp to brake the bush." @With that she looked left ,right ,up down for a stick,
P39	of some sort but there was nothing... @Then just then as stick rolled by her feet so she took it and started hitting it as if it were a fencing match between her and the bush. As she gave the bush a final hit, it finally fell.
P40	Chapter 7@@"See? It's all fine Rex!" She showed him. Rex started rubbing against her legs as a sign of saying thanks for saving me from the naughty bush! I appreciate it!
P41	Ivy and Rex carried on their search for home when they came across an apple tree. Their first instinct was to go eat one or two, because they were starving in their adventure. As hard as she tried, she couldn't get it, she stretched, she -
P42	jumped ,yet there was still no hope until she found a stump - which acted like a stool. Finally she got the apples and devoured them as soon as possible. Of course she gave some to Rex! That gave them enough energy to continue their quest.
P43	Chapter 8@Wow! You read this far? I am so proud of you! I bet you are wondering what on earth is next so I'll continue! Each step they took was a step closer to the end... "OWWWWWW WHAT WAS THAT?" Ivy shrieked. It turned out it was just a-
P44	a branch from a tree. At least it didn't leave a mark. In the distance, there was a shadow of which she had never seen... It looked like a mountain but she was 100% sure it wasn't. As she stepped closer, she realised it was... THE BOOK OF-
P45	TRUTH! FINALLY SHE FOUND IT! However, it looked different in a way that is hard to describe... It was black instead of a creamy white and read. Truth of book ( like an opposite). She decided to come closer and discover it in more detail...
P46	She had to come really close in order to find it. It was a bamboo leaf rapping the item inside. She decided to take it and as she was opening she saw that it wasn't a crystal no it was a letter? She read it and the letter read: I'm sure-
P47	you would want to go home by now... Follow the instructions following my statement in order to go home. Curios on who it was, she read on... Place the crystals in your bracelet in the order of the rainbow then you will go back. BE AWARE-
P48	THE BRACELET MUST BE ON FOR IT TO WORK... Trusting the instructions, she put on the bracelet from earlier and placed the crystals in. "One, two, three" she counted as she was placing them in. "One more. I can do this..." @She grabbed on to-
P49	Rex and placed the last in. @BOOM!!! She woke up in fright... Wait... she was in bed? "Must have been a dream" she giggled. She looked at her wrist and saw the bracelet. "Or not!" She replied to her own question.@@THE END!
P50	The adventure continues. Read more of my stories coming soon for the series so you could see what quests are to come!

images:

illustrations/pages/82500101.png
illustrations/pages/82500102.png
illustrations/pages/82500103.png
illustrations/pages/82500104.png
illustrations/pages/82500105.png
illustrations/pages/82500106.png
illustrations/pages/82500107.png
illustrations/pages/82500108.png
illustrations/pages/82500109.png
illustrations/pages/82500110.png
illustrations/pages/82500111.png

translations:

