url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=38073&d=0&a=1
id:	38073
title:	Bea's first day
author:	Yana Arora
artist:	Jesse Breytenbach, Kenneth Boyowa Okitikpi, Rob Owen, Vusi Malindi and Catherine Groenewald
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/38073.png
desc:	This is a story of a cute and a little girlBea.Today is her first day to school and now read whats the next?

page_text:

P1	Bea is a 3 years old girl.Her parents are extremely excited for seeing her daughter's new school.Our Bea is going to a new school first time.I am so excited her mother said.Yes she is getting old.Ma said Bea.Yes Bea!what happened to you?
P2	What were you talking about?We were talking about new school.You are going to start a new adventure.Are not you excited?I am happy mom but .......said Bea.Hmm?I am afraid of making new friends.I don't have any friend.
P3	Not even one friend said Bea sadly.Oh dear.You don't need to take tension.I know that you are going to be a good friend said her mother.But how can I?Her mom said let me tell you that how you can be a good friend of Every child.I can't wait
P4	So you need to be kind and happy to others.Always help everyone and be a good friend.Always tell them to keep smile in your face.Ok ma it's clear Said Bea.Now I am ready to go to school.I can't wait to go to school.
P5	Next day,,,Bea are you ready?said mom.Yes ma let's go to school.I am so excited.Let's go fast.Okk.Good morning Bea!!said by Miss Stephan (her class teacher).Good morning ma'am ma'am said her mother.Good morning said Bea softly.
P6	Good morning dear.I am Stephan.I am your class teacher but I am going to spend a time with you like your best friend.Thank you ma'am said by her mother.Thank you said Bea.Her mother left the school and go in front of the car.
P7	Bea waved her hands and said goodbye to her mother and shouted good bye ma.Her mother said goodbye and said goodbluck dear.Then her class teacher introduced Bea to all children.Bea got shy and said hi in tiny.
P8	All children said hello to her and a girl named Aleena said , hi Bea you can sit with me.Thank you said Bea.Bea talked about her family so she said that her elder sister is not well nowadays and she always helps her with her work.
P9	Bea suprised to listen that learnt something new to help others.Suddenly her teacher asked the children about their hobbies.Rohit said that he really love to watch his brother climbing on trees and take off the mangoes.
P10	All student's told their hobbies and then that was the turn of Bea . She thought for a minute and then said that I love to listen my mother's speech.Miss Stephan asked her does she tell you stories?No said Bea.
P11	She always teaches me good habbits.Her teacher clapped so hard and said that your mother is so good.All students also clapped for her and her mother.Bea said thank you and then the all heard the sound of car's horn.It's my mom!! said Bea.
P12	Miss Stephan said ok Bea let's go.She ran and went to her mother and kissed her.Ma you were right today was my best day.The best day ever.her mother said I told you.Thank you ma.I never forget this day.I Love you

images:

illustrations/pages/9853.png
illustrations/pages/26065.png
illustrations/pages/8601.png
illustrations/pages/25265.png
illustrations/pages/7977.png
illustrations/pages/26779.png
illustrations/pages/27123.png
illustrations/pages/26111.png
illustrations/pages/9850.png

translations:

