url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=38129&d=0&a=1
id:	38129
title:	The ugly boy
author:	Ziena Ugochukwu
artist:	Jacob Kono
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/38129.png
desc:	This is is the story of a young boy Ugo because he was ugly no one wanted to be around him.
After his mother death they chased him from his home town to live on the streets as a begger when a rich very rich lady took him in.

page_text:

P1	Once upon a time there lived an ugly boy whose name was Ugo.@ His mom was the only person who loved him.His father had passed away and had only one friend. Her name is Sheila.@    One day his father appears to him in his dream.
P2	His father told him how life was and told him (Ugo) that he would soon loose someone.@Immediately he woke up and told his mom about it. His mom said I am sorry. He didn't know that his father had visited his mother and told her.
P3	Soon the mother died. Her last wish was that he should be strong and endure the wickedness of the world . She is always with him then she died. The villagers accused him for the death of his mother.@Only Sheila knew but she was too afraid.
P4	He then understood what his father told him and his mom when he was ran out of the town.@He was poor living in the city begging for money and had no one by his side but he always believed he would meet Sheila again. He had always loved her.
P5	He knew why Sheila didn't help him because of her strict father and his belt. They had a strong relationship but never knew it. It was the thought of her that kept him struggling.@One day a rich woman adopted him dispute how ugly he looked.
P6	He became a servant boy and worked to earn as he did. The lady noticed how hardworking he was. One day she asked if he had completed his studies  and his response no.@He was in SS1 when he was ran out of his town. He was a bright student.
P7	He was top of his class yet no one hanged out with him only Sheila who manages to be second after him. Then his madam enrolled him in a very good school where still maintained top of the class with flying colors.
P8	But because he was ugly he still had no friends. He always dreamt of returning to see his beloved Sheila.@And hoping she was doing well.
P9	Meanwhile at the town Sheila was passing with flying colours since Ugo was not around. All students wanted to be her friend but she refused each time and always replied" You were not friends with Ugo so you can not be friends with me".
P10	She was alone without no friends yet managed to be happy. Her parents always wondered why she was happy without any friends. She always had in her mind that Ugo would come back for her.
P11	WATCH OUT FOR @THE UGLY BOY 2

images:

illustrations/pages/25089.png

translations:

