url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=38130&d=0&a=1
id:	38130
title:	The ugly boy 2
author:	Ziena Ugochukwu
artist:	Kenneth Boyowa Okitikpi
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/38130.png
desc:	This is the sequel to the wonderful book The Ugly Boy.
After returning from the city

page_text:

P1	Ugo had grown up. He no longer was ugly but he was handsome. So many girls wanted to be with him but he refused. He always replied" I already have a one and only". He finished his education and open a successful company.
P2	Sheila had just graduated but in the town there was no much jobs . She had to be hulking food stuffs to earn food on her table. She was not happy with her life for she wanted to be a medical doctor not a hulker.
P3	Ugo thanked the lady very much . Then he saw the spirit of his mom saying I am proud of you.@Then he had built a mansion all that was left was to get married to his beloved.
P4	He travelled back to his town. Word spread that Mr Hurricane was visiting. When Sheila heard this she knew that Ugo was back for only her knew his surname because his father was not from Nigeria.
P5	When he arrived all the villagers knew him but didn't recognize him. He remembered all of them and he announced he was looking for a wife. All the maidens of the land came for the ceremony to get married to him.
P6	Sheila's father didn't let her go. He said it was a waste of time plus she is to be married to someone else. On that day sheila snucked out to attend. All the girls said she had no chance of winning and that was the day Sheila's suitor came
P7	When the suitor arrived Sheila was nowhere to be found. Then the dad knew that she attended the choosing of wife ceremony. He said he would teach her a lesson.
P8	She was beautifully dressed and Ugo recognized her but she didn't recognize him. As the ceremony started Ugo was about to choose Sheila when her father stepped in.@He apologized for his daughter and said he would teach her a lesson.
P9	Ugo replied "leave her for she is to be my bride" the father was astonished. Mr Hurricane announced"Do you remember me, the boy you casted out and now you want to associate with me, she is the only one who believed in me Mr Ugo Hurricane.
P10	Everyone was astonished to hear they could not believe it. Then he said" I shall have no revenge for I am a peaceful man all I want is your daughter's hand in marriage. The ignorant father refused and forcefully took Sheila.
P11	But Sheila refused she said " I do not care if you give me your blessings or not I will go with him" and she entered the car and drove off with Ugo.
P12	They finally arrived at the city where they got married and lived happily with their four children.
P13	THE END

images:

illustrations/pages/27125.png

translations:

