url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=38133&d=0&a=1
id:	38133
title:	Pari :- The Brave Girl
author:	Mahi Singh
artist:	Offei Tettey Eugene, Wiehan de Jager, Rob Owen, Catherine Groenewald, Jesse Breytenbach and Abraham Muzee
lang:	None
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/38133.png
desc:	Hi

page_text:

P1	Once upon a time, A girl lived in Uttarakhand.Her name was Pari. She lived with her parents and a younger sister. She was very good in studies. And she loved her sister too much. Her sister's name was Srishti.@Srishti was 3 years old.
P2	One day Pari was going to school. When she reached the school, she saw that a new student had come in her class. His name was Rohan. And they both became very good friends. One day both were studying.They both got a homework.
P3	In that, both of them had to make a drawing of their favorite thing. Pari had no idea what to make of her favorite thing.She asked Rohan.So Rohan said, ok tell me which is your favorite thing. Pari said, I do not understand that.
P4	Rohan said, Ok, let's do homework in the garden. So they both went to the garden. And when she went to the garden, an idea came to her mind. That my favorite thing is rainbow. She thanks Rohan.
P5	And they both went to play. Both of them started playing with their partner. One day there was a competition in school. In this, the children had to choose their partner.
P6	It was a race in which the children had to run by holding their partner's hand. And Pari made her best friend her partner. Rohan gets sad but makes another child his partner. And the race started.
P7	After 10 minutes of race, Rohan won the race and Pari came second. Pari congratulates Rohan. They met in a garden on Sunday. Rohan told Pari that we are going to leave the city. Pari asked "why". Rohan said: - My father has been transferred
P8	Pari said :- Okay. and she left. After some days Rohan went to Ladakh. Now the Pari is very sad. Now 5 years have passed.
P9	Now she had grown up. And she also started living in Mumbai. One day she thought: - Let's go to Rohan's house "Ladakh". Now she thought of taking her younger sister to Ladakh. She asked her parents. And his parents also said yes.
P10	Now she booked the bus ticket. The next day they both started waiting for the bus. But what did both of them know  that bus  ticket did not booked. When she came to know about this, he thought of doing another ticket.
P11	But he didn't get any ticket.He thought let's go on foot.He then thought that he would leave Srishti at home. Ladakh is far away. She left Srishti at home. And she started walking.
P12	When she was walking on the way, she saw a butterfly on the way. The butterfly sat on her head. She liked that butterfly very much. But she was getting late. Finally, she reached Ladakh after a few days.
P13	But when she went to Rohan's house she saw that Rohan was sad. She sees that Rohan is not eating food.
P14	She went and asked Rohan what happened why are you sad. Rohan said that "My friend Rahul had become a bus assistant. Now he doesn't play with me. Pari said: - Never mind, I will play with you.
P15	One day when she was playing badminton in the park, she went to Cork Road. So Rohan went to pick it up. But a truck was coming from the front. Pari saw the truck and went after Rohan. He tried to stop Rohan.
P16	But nothing happened to Rohan, why should I tell? But nothing happened to Rohan, why should I tell? Because Pari saved him. But Pari  got a injury. So Pari is brave.
P17	Moral :- Be Brave.

images:

illustrations/pages/1495.png
illustrations/pages/1496.png
illustrations/pages/1499.png
illustrations/pages/9840.png
illustrations/pages/26440.png
illustrations/pages/9845.png
illustrations/pages/26441.png
illustrations/pages/9855.png
illustrations/pages/26436.png
illustrations/pages/26091.png
illustrations/pages/13260.png
illustrations/pages/9638.png

translations:

