url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=38144&d=0&a=1
id:	38144
title:	Aliyu Goes to Market
author:	Moremi Maryam Muhammad
artist:	Moremi Maryam Muhammad
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/38144.png
desc:	This book was made because of how I am in love with Moremi and I’m ready to propose and take her to the altar

page_text:

P1	It’s the last day of vacation in Afe Babalola university and it’s sunny. Aliyu is complaining about  how stressful Abuad is, he was lied to that Abuad is a really fun school by his cousin Moremi 😂. The stress is just too much for him.
P2	Aliyu was supposed to go home on a Friday but his cousin Moremi had an exam on Thursday and her dad made her come home that Thursday. Aliyu following Moremi home that Thursday had to start parking his load in a rush but this made Moremi sad
P3	Moremi was sad because she had to leave the love of her life Buba behind in school and it also made Buba also sad. Buba got angry at Moremi because he didn’t know how to take that information having staying back because of his one true love
P4	But with time Buba came to understand Moremi wasn’t at fault and he had to maximize the time he had left with his baby girl. Then on that fateful vacation day Buba came to see his one true love, Moremi.
P5	Aliyu being at the gate for over thirty minutes was already running out of patience as his cousin was dealing with some missing luggage and Buba was also sad that she had to go through that to go home but Buba stayed with her through that.
P6	Luckily Moremi found her luggage and Buba felt so happy for her but also sad she had to leave him behind but Aliyu was so happy he got to go home 😂. Buba watched Moremi go with regrets he couldn’t get to tell her how much he loved her 🤧
P7	Then Buba went back to hostel, packed his things and left school also. Then he called his one true love that night and had a very sexy conversation with her that night 🙃. Buba slept thinking of how privileged he was to have the most caring
P8	woman in the world. As time passed Aliyu now went to the Market and Buba grew so much love for Moremi @And he’s sworn to love her to the end of the world. I love you Moremi and I’ll always do even if you don’t 🥺

images:

illustrations/pages/35070101.png
illustrations/pages/35070102.png

translations:

