url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=38201&d=0&a=1
id:	38201
title:	My Love Story
author:	Romar Mckenzie
artist:	Romar Mckenzie
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/38201.png
desc:	This story based off a true story and true experience in the past

page_text:

P1	In the year of 2014 it wasn't love at first sight but love at first kiss. I was only in eight grade, when I experience the magical feeling of love. This girl was all that I wanted, whenever I see her my heart would race, my tummy would
P2	tickle as if there were butterflies on the inside, I only had eyes for her. There was no greater feeling on earth, I would glance at her all day, trying to match her beauty but it was beyond compare. I never told her how I felt until the
P3	end of the semester and that is when she asked me what took me so long, I was in so much joy that my teeths were on the outside like a label on a box all the way home. We decided that we will officially start dating January first knowing
P4	that, I wanted the holidays over as quickly as a passing meteroid. The days didn't move any faster but merely seem slower, we saw each other once at the annual Christmas eve fare but only to humiliate my self by falling over the bounce bout
P5	cord. We both smiled about it but my smile was to cover the fact that I fell, she did not stay for long as she was walking away I can't seem to take my eyes off her as she disappear through the chattering crowd.
P6	The time as finally arrive, fire works, church bells and the enourmous gathering, counting down, I was the happiest man alive. I wasn't happy that it was new year, I was overwhelmed by the fact that our relationship as started.
P7	The night before school I only had to hours of sleep I was eager to see her, I wore my best suite to school that day and iron them twice, making sure there wasn't a double seem or crease on my uniform. Knowing that she is at school I went
P8	to the store to buy her favourite chocolate, I did not like that specific chocolate because it was named after a guy, but being the gentle man I am I bought it anyway. Unpon entering the school gate my friends started to alarm my name
P9	repeatedly which give me a fright. The hardest challenge I had that day was entering the classroom, knowing that she was on the inside. I pulled up my socks, straighten up my tie and swallow my pride. Walking to my desk head held down
P10	Where I suddenly stop, noticing that there is someone sitting at my desk in neatly fold socks, pleats were in place and white blouse was white as snow. I slowly glance at the person face whom was comforting my desk only to realize that it
P11	was my bunddle of joy. She was there sitting and smiling under her gorgeous eyes, that compliments her beauty perfectly, the feeling was more than mutual. As I stood there hoping she did not saw the chocolates in the transparent bag
P12	She instantly asked if those were Bobby chocolate, before I could reply properly she took the bag from my hand. Touching her hand for the first reminds of a baby blanket. As the days go by we tend to bond closer and get more intimate as we
P13	grew in love. It was Valentines day and we both exchange gifts, but I wanted a little but more than a gift. While she was looking in the other direction I cheekily leaned close to her and called her so she will turned and would have kissed
P14	her for the first time. Unfortunately my plan had some errors to it as I never think it through. Her taxi was about to leave, she knew what my intentions were as I stood there and every other evening waiting on her to leave she called me by
P15	the window leaned in and kiss me. That blessed evening I difined the laws of gravity my pupil expanded, my heart starting to race, my mind had that kiss on repeat. I didn't know what was happening to me, there was this rush, this feeling
P16	that I could not escape. I wanted to tell my friends but I can't explain what am feeling but I know it's beyond great. From that moment on, I knew she was the girl for me, she was the one I want to marry, we had the time of our lives.
P17	As days turned into months, and months turned into year, our love grew stronger we only had eyes for each other. Our relationship drew many attention and before you know it everyone know about us, we were inseparable. To be continued....

images:

illustrations/pages/42170101.png

translations:

