url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=38229&d=0&a=1
id:	38229
title:	Spiderman: the journey starts
author:	King Thomas
artist:	King Thomas
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/38229.png
desc:	Spiderman vs the lizard begins pretty much

page_text:

P1	It was morning on new York, Peter had been chilling inside his room getting ready for school, he had Finally gotten ready, he got his book back and his stuff, he had a science project at school that he was exited for
P2	"Bye mom cya later"  Peter shouted before running outside and to the bus, as soon as he got on the bus he saw a bunch of attitude like faces, as he walked forward a girl blocked her seat as she said "your most definitely not sitting here"
P3	Peter kept walking foward As he finally found an empty seat, he walked there but had been tripped by his personal bully named "flash" . "get up Parker"flash yelled Peter got up and sat in the seat.. " gee the bus driver must be deaf"
P4	Peter thought in his head as they started driving to school, it had a taken a few moments before they actually arrived, as soon as they arrived everyone stood up, Peter was being pushed around in line
P5	As soon as they got off the bus Peter came running all the way to class, he was actually in a race with most of his friends, he won the race "welcome to class" his teacher welcomed him
P6	"Hey Mrs. Smith" Peter replied as he walked to his suit with the rest of his classmates, "well we have a science experiment, NOW" so your in luck"  Mrs. Smith told the class
P7	"YAY! " the whole class shouted as they ran to line order , Mrs. Smith got in front and walked the class to the place where the science experiment had been
P8	"Now listen to the directors" Mrs. Smith said before walking back to the classroom alone. @@"Hello  high school students, we are here to show you are genetically modified spiders"
P9	Peter saw a spider that immediately got his attention, he took out his camera  and started taking pictures of it. Meanwhile the director were introducing them to there spiders,  after a few minutes of introduction
P10	They were finally aloud to get a better look at the spiders, the whole class walked to different spiders, one spider even had 20 legs instead of 8
P11	"Hey Peter, you still obsessed with weird looking spiders? " harry Osborn his friend asked  "yeh what about em, this one looks cool"
P12	Peter replied as he took a photo, "I'm gonna check out a spider of my own" harry said before walking away, Peter then saw Gwen Stacy in the corner, he walked towards her and asked if he could take pictures, she said yes
P13	"Ok cool" Peter replied as he smiled, Gwen posed as Peter took pictures of Gwen, little did he know the spider he was looking at had escaped and was dangling in a web above him
P14	Peter kept taking photos until a classmate yelled her name, "coming" Gwen replied to the classmate as she starting walking towards the student the spider had landed on Peters neck and. Then..
P15	The spider bit Peter's neck! Peter grunted in pain for a second as the spider fell off him, Gwen turned around and stated at Peter for a few seconds, Peter crouched and watched the spider crawl under a table
P16	Peter began itching his neck  "you ok Peter? " the professor named "professor Stevens" asked Peter.  "The spider bit the back of my neck"  Peter replied..@"Oh no" professor Steven shrieked as he contacted Peter's parents
P17	He let them know Peter had to go to an early dismissal, he also let the teacher know that he had to go to the office, after a few minutes his parents finally arrived and drove him home, "what happened" his dad asked. Peter ignored
P18	After they arrived Home, Peter immediately ran in the house and upstairs to his room, he felt weird and dizzy
P19	Peter stared into his mirror as his vision became super blurry, he shut his room door as he walked back to his mirror but then.. He passed out..
P20	While he was passed out.. In his mind all he saw was spiders and DNA cells... And he couldn't stop hearing the words "genetically modified" echoing in his head
P21	The whole night had passed.. But for Peter it only felt like a minute, Peter finally then woke up to see his shirt and jacket had been off of him, his alarm was beeping and when he tried to turn it off, he.. Crushed it
P22	"What the.. " Peter said in complete shock and confusion Peter stood up feeling amazing, he had  put a different shirt on but the same jacket, he noticed something about him.. He had muscles
P23	He had looked out the window and realized it was MORNING  and last time he was up it was night time.. He walked out his door and ran down stairs, he knocked on aunt may's door and said "I feel better now also can I go outside for a moment"
P24	Peter asked,  "wonderful, and yes be safe " aunt May replied, Peter ran outside, shut the door behind him and ran to an Alley
P25	He had looked on his fingers and  it felt super.. Sticky, he put his hand on the wall of the alley to see if it was actually sticky, it was.. He had been confused as to why it was, he had a bright idea
P26	"Hmm, I was bitten my a genetically modified radioactive spider.. Passed out and now my hands are super sticky and I crushed my alarm accidentally.. So that might mean.. " Peter said as he put his other hand on the wall
P27	He put his foot on the wall, and then his other foot, it stuck to the wall just like a spider, Peter climbed up the alley wall with a face of excitement
P28	He climbed all the way up to the roof as he had a bright idea to complete his whole "spider" ability, he jumped off the roof and ran all the way home, he was MUCH faster than before
P29	He had been home, he stormed inside and shut the door, he ran upstairs and into his room, he had tons of materials and had an idea.. Web shooters, he locked his room door and started working
P30	In a few hours he had finally created them, Peter bad finally realized what he could use his powers for.. He had been extremely happy
P31	It had been the afternoon and Peter had been doing research on his powers and how they were possible.. Until aunt May and his father called him down for dinner
P32	"Coming! " Peter shouted as he ran down stairs and saw a table full of food, he even saw Gwen sitting in a chair
P33	"I'm glad you feel better Peter" his father said as Peter walked to the table and sat down, Peter had stared at his plate with a straight face. "Is there something wrong? " Gwen asked. "No" Peter replied
P34	Everyone began eating, Peter began eating slowly. Peter had a huge idea to become a possible superhero.. "Hey guys I'm  gonna go to sleep I'm not feeling well" Peter lied as he walked upstairs.  "Goodnight Peter" Gwen said
P35	Before Peter ran into his room  shut his door and started thinking about becoming a super hero.. He only. Needed one thing@@A suit
P36	Peter ran to his closet and starting looked for clothes that matched the colors of the spider that bit. Him, he got a blue long sleeve shirt and a red T shirt  and blue sweatpants
P37	He got super glue and glued the red shirt to the blue long sleeve shirt, and kept the blue sweatpants alone.. But he wanted to have a better design, he printed out a spider logo, both red and black, he then printed out a web design
P38	He super glued the spider black spider logo to the front of his suit and red spider logo to the back of his suit, he then wrapped the webbing design around the suit to add webbing.. But he needed a mask and shoes..
P39	He printed out a plain red mask, he used glasses lenses to eyes, he also cut out eye holes and put the glasses lenses over them, he painted the glasses lenses white, he finished the web designing on the mask. All he needed was boots
P40	Peter had already had red rain boots.. Expect he would never use them because it  never rained, he put web designing on the boots and boom.. His suit was created
P41	"PERFECT" Peter whispered, he put his suit in his closet very carefully and shut his closet door, and turned his TV on, he then finally slept
P42	It had been a few hours, Peter and the rest of his family had been in a deep sleep. Until all of their TV's turned on for a extreme news report "anonymous person inside new york high school has been reported of using dangerous chemicals to-
P43	Cause damage to the city, if not stopped soon it could cause life threatening damage to the city, I repeat seek shelter immediately" the news lady said, Peter knew he was the only one who could stop it, Peter jumped out his bed
P44	Peter ran into his closet and took his spider suit that he made a few hours ago
P45	And put it on,  he  attacked his webs shooters to the wrists of the suit.. He didn't know how he was gonna get there until.. He found out
P46	He jumped out his window and shot his web at a building, his swinging journey then began..
P47	Spiderman began swinging from building to building
P48	Peter had landed on a wall of a building, he saw the school and webbed on to it, he then swung all the way to it, he crashed through the top floor window on accident
P49	He stood up and saw professor Stevens with 3 green chemicals that he was about to drink, professor Stevens turned around and looked at him, "and who are you" Stevens asked@      "I'm uh... Big strong sticky guy"
P50	Professor Stevens sighed and took a sip of all 3 of the chemicals, he then fell to the floor in extreme pain.. "PROFESSOR STEVENS" Peter.. Or should I say spiderman, yelled in shock
P51	Professor Stevens became super big and green.. A big lizard
P52	Professor Stevens then charged at spiderman on all fours, spiderman dodged and jumped onto the ceiling, he then webbed up professor  Stevens face.. Or the lizards face, he then webbed onto a wall and swing a kick at the lizard
P53	The lizard got sent flying into the wall, spiderman then fell to the floor and crouched in a pouncing position, lizard then ran towards spiderman and then..
P54	The lizard grabbed spiderman and powerbombed him through all the floors, spiderman kicked him in the face, but the lizard grabbed his leg and tossed him out the window
P55	Spiderman webbed onto the wall of the building, wrapped a web around a dumpster and pulled the dumpster up , and swung it around before it hit lizard in the face, lizard than fell out the window
P56	Spiderman ran and looked out the window, no one was on the floor.. Peter was very concerned until he had a feeling.. A sense that something was about to happen, his body forced him to duck, and when he looked. A computer was coming at him
P57	"Hey lizard, if you took over my proffesors body somehow, you can call me spiderman, web head, amazing, just don't call me Peter Pan got it? " spiderman joked before lizard jumped at him and tackled how out the window
P58	Spiderman  shot a web at the wall to not fall and then he punched him in the face, lizard then went flying onto the  grass, spiderman let go of his web
P59	And  fell to the grass as well, the lizard kicked spiderman into the road, a car was heading straight towards him spiderman jumped out the road and onto a wall, the lizard ran into the road and kicked the car to where spiderman was
P60	The person inside the car was on the break of dying luckily enough spiderman caught the car, spiderman then jumped off the wall and landed on his feet, he put the car down and pounced towards lizard
P61	The lizard punched spiderman into a tree that snapped on impact  spiderman was stunned for a moment before getting up and shooting a web at the lizards face, he then wrapped a web around lizards body
P62	Spiderman then swung lizard around and through ton of trees, lizard had been hurt and wrapped in webs, and in  a short amount of time police arrived to get lizard in jail, over 10 police had to carry lizard into a huge truck
P63	A police lady came up to him and asked @spiderman "who are you"  @@ "spiderman"  he replied in a hurt tone before web swinging all the way back home and into his room, he then room his suit off and put it back in the closet
P64	He had fell into bed extremely hurt but happy he took down a villain, he then slept
P65	The next day@Peter woke up and accidentally jumped out the bed and onto the ceiling
P66	Peter had been in shock that he randomly woke up in such a way, he then fell onto the bed making  a big boom, he then realized that it was Sunday so no school, he turned on his TV and as soon as he did, he saw a news report
P67	That had  a picture of him web swinging as spiderman, he watched the news report, it had been all about him saving the city
P68	"Vigilante named spiderman comes to save the city police reported him saving the city from a proffesor who used chemicals to become a powerful lizard, professor is now in jail until further notice" the news lady said
P69	Peter's straight face immediately faded into a smile, Peter knew he had potential, Peter had to get used to being a hero, Peter walked outta bed, and down stairs remembering that Gwen told him to meet her at the park
P70	He knocked on aunt Mays door asking if he could meet gwen at the park,  "fine but be safe" she replied as Peter ran outside and all the way to the park, he saw gwen standing in the middle of the park, he walked to gwen
P71	"So gwen why am I needed here" Peter asked gwen,  "there are a bunch of thugs and shooters that will be invading new york City" gwen said with a terrified face.
P72	"Wait what?, what time" Peter asked@"Exactly 7:pm, tell aunt May and Ben to drive us some where safe at That time" gwen replied
P73	Peter checked his phone.. It had already been 6:50, Peter grabbed gwen and lifted her up "what are you doing? " gwen asked in a confused tone, Peter then ran to his house
P74	Peter sat gwen down on the couch and told aunt May and uncle Ben about it, expect he made up a fake story and said it was at 9:pm, he then ran upstairs and looked at the  clock, it was 6:58, Peter put on his spider suit
P75	He then wrapped his webs shooters around them, and jumped out his window , he started when swinging all around the city, "SPIDERMAN" a guy who was walking in the street yelled, spiderman kept swinging
P76	Spiderman finally saw the thugs. Running into the street, he dropped down and stopped them in there tracks. "HEY YOU GUYS, WHAT DO YOU THINK YOUR DOING" spiderman yelled at them , the thugs pulled out there guns
P77	They started firing at spiderman, spiderman dodged all there bullets , jumped up and webbed all there guns and pulled there guns towards him, spiderman  saw the Bomb on a wall, it had a minute left spiderman pounced and punched a thugs face
P78	the rest of the thugs started running at him, he was beating up the thugs left to right,
P79	, he saw a really big thug who had a mini gun "oh boy" spiderman said before the thug starting shooting at. Him with the mini gun, spiderman was dodging the bullets with no difficulty, he webbed the thugs gun up
P80	The thug used that to his advantage, he swung the gun around while spiderman had his webbed attached to it, spiderman was also attached to the gun, the thug slammed spiderman through a wall
P81	"Your big and have brains?,  beats me" spiderman jokes before the thug ran in anger towards spiderman, spiderman jumped onto the ceiling and shot a web at the thugs face, spiderman jumped off the ceiling and shot a web at the thugs face
P82	The thug ripped the webs off his face as he looked at the ceiling and spiderman was gone, the thug backed up and as soon as he turned around spiderman shot a web at him that wrapped around his whole body
P83	Spiderman looked at the bomb clock. It only had 20 seconds, yet the bomb was so high up, there were 3 thugs left , they l fired at him, spiderman jumped on the Wall and crawled up it, dodging bullets
P84	He then web zipped up to the bomb, he ripped it off the wall and kept crawling on the wall.. He looked at the timer and only 10 seconds left, spiderman was gonna toss it into the sky
P85	9... Spiderman kept crawling faster an faster
P86	8.... The thugs shooting at spiderman wouldn't help at all, spiderman web zipped further up to the top of the roof,
P87	7...Spiderman pounced further up the building, 6...spiderman started running on the building going further up... 5.. "I'm going as fast as I can" spiderman shouted talking to. Him self as if the bomb was a person
P88	4....spider man web zipped on to the roof finally, he stood and waited.. 3...2..spiderman  then jumped into the sky and tossed the bomb into sky, the bomb exploded in the sky and the shockwave send him flying down to the ground
P89	It took a while before spiderman could stand up,  he than finally stood up in pain, he saw a three of the thugs pointing there. Guns at him, he jumped up and webbed there guns onto the wall
P90	He then fell down and then...
P91	Spiderman took down 3 all three of the thugs, he then swung all the way home and through his window, he took his suit off and  fell asleep..

images:

illustrations/pages/72440601.png
illustrations/pages/72440602.png
illustrations/pages/72440603.png
illustrations/pages/72440604.png
illustrations/pages/72440605.png
illustrations/pages/72440606.png
illustrations/pages/72440607.png
illustrations/pages/72440608.png
illustrations/pages/72440609.png
illustrations/pages/72440610.png
illustrations/pages/72440611.png
illustrations/pages/72440612.png
illustrations/pages/72440613.png
illustrations/pages/72440614.png
illustrations/pages/72440615.png
illustrations/pages/72440616.png
illustrations/pages/72440617.png
illustrations/pages/72440618.png
illustrations/pages/72440619.png
illustrations/pages/72440620.png
illustrations/pages/72440621.png
illustrations/pages/72440622.png
illustrations/pages/72440623.png
illustrations/pages/72440624.png
illustrations/pages/72440625.png
illustrations/pages/72440626.png

translations:

