url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=38224&d=0&a=1
id:	38224
title:	Eevees story
author:	Shivonn Jacob
artist:	Shivonn Jacob
lang:	None
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/38224.png
desc:	It is about a pokemon named Eevee she went threw a big adventure finding her home.

page_text:

P1	Hi I'm Eevee,I heard there's a island named after me  it's called Eevee island my adventure starts here I'm a pokemon I live alone but imma teen.
P2	So I packed my things and left to Eevee island. I got hungry and ate something that I packed and hit the road again.I played with grass type pokemons and they gave me some stuff they made and food they had gave me delicious food and walked
P3	I got tired since it was night and I took shelter I woke up and smelled something cooking and opened my eyes and I saw only fire pokemons taking me somewhere and asked one of them and they said they are taking me to their queen
P4	I was said if I help a little they will reward me so I had to cook,clean,fix and heal because I have the power of helpy hand so yea it was actually fun so my mission was done and I got as reward a car,staff and more food! So I drove of!
P5	I'll miss all the other pokemons at my previous island but I knew,I didn't belong by previous island but I know I'm going to my true home so I stopped at the beach to have fun with other water pokemon s so I'll say if their is more news.
P6	Oh hi so  I have to travel to many islands to get to Eevee island, I am very excited ! So now I'm still traveling I have gone to moon island,fairy island,lighting island,and and all of the other islands but still not Eevee island.
P7	So I got tired and slept and I woke up and you can't believe what I saw it was Eevee island! I jumped out of my fire car and ran but I bumped my toe on a purple rock and I turned into a physic  pokemon! My new name is Espeon!
P8	So I was having loads of fun till I saw my face on a paper that said missing, please contact 0912367 if found and I contacted that number and I said let's meet somewhere since they  didn't recognize my voice so they came where I said.
P9	And when I saw them I ran to them and hugged them and I recognized their faces and then they hugged me back and I told them what happened and how I got there they said I must take some weird gem they gave me it could turn you into anything!
P10	But when I got really happy because my parents found me I saw everybody was running well let me tell you why every 10 years humans try to invade our Eevee island and capture all Eevees because we are ultra rare pokemons.
P11	And we are the last if our kind so my parents never get captured because they also have the transforming gem but I thought about it I'm not going to run and hide I'm going to stand up to my enemies and put them in their place!
P12	So I teamed up with some pokemons because on Eevee island there are some other pokemons so I said "I can't face my enemies alone who is with me!''and there was complete silence. So 5 pokemons helped me think of a plan.
P13	And a lot only lisened to a odd rare pokemon but they one by one listened to me, so we had a whole army of pokemons and I was their leader!So we sneaked in to the human lair and I checked in my bag and saw a paperclip so I tried saving them
P14	But when I saved 3 pokemons  then the humans came in so I hid and they were talking about a super mutant project to mutate anything basically, so humanity will be ruined so I have to save humanity so  my mission actually begins here!
P15	So I saw  humans were walking out so I put my paws together and boom! I blasted all the cage doors open I really expected that because I studied it umm I don't know what to say anymore actually I'll tell if there is more news.
P16	So  I previously saved the pokemons and then we went to the human meeting and bam! We broke the wall and we attacked! And they didn't have anything to stop or catch us and I shouted ''let's make peace!''  ''Let's stop war''.
P17	And everybody agreed so ... A few years later my whole family was reunited and we lived by a very kind humans house well everybody did. Some pokemons liked battling for fun and life went on and on.THE END!

images:

illustrations/pages/92300101.png

translations:

