url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=38495&d=0&a=1
id:	38495
title:	Children who fell from the sky
author:	Mary ann palms
artist:	Offei Tettey Eugene, Wiehan de Jager, Jesse Breytenbach, Magriet Brink, Catherine Groenewald, Leo Daly and Rob Owen
lang:	None
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/38495.png
desc:	Would like to expand on the thoughts of our youth to give a direction.Promoting good company in drawing minds into the spirit of there imagination. Stimulating self-faith and personal growth.

page_text:

P1	Once upon a time there was a God that was so pleased with the creation of Life. That he cried daily from the Universe tears of joy that gave birth to children who fell from the sky. Being a ideal machine. The Universe exist inside of you.
P2	Children who fell from the sky rained down from Heaven in all directions. You put on flesh to walk this journey the acceptance of this gift is a jewel and is not a fairy tale. It is the natural state of love. Sunlight playing over moutains.
P3	The Universe exists in every cell of your body and you are deeply rooted to the web of life. The interconnectedness of the natural world. exist as an idea in the mind. The unity of all things is a spiritual understanding the Oneness of God,
P4	Your Ancestors relied on the stars and the motions of the moon. The visible air holds life spirit for the mind of the cosmo is a reflection of God.The bedrock of reality is a reference point  of innate memories, temporary garments.
P5	You are bright as the Sun and have the pride of an Eagle. For that which is everywhere but cannot be seen is the Creator the staff of life. Time is a remarkable dimension for only nomads reason why we are here.You don't have to just exist.
P6	The project of growing is unlimited; however, the material opposition in society is a narrow concept. You are the Universe.Awaken through your senses you have to attend to your emotional state. Spring into learning constantly, forever.
P7	For it is by grace we are saved. Attention allows information to flow. The cosmo is not empty. So listen to the melody of your heart for this is the greatest love song you will ever create.
P8	Greeting Grandchildren, prepare for you a way to navigate your prespectives: hawkins in fords, kendrick souls. Ambitious people, asks questions the crown you wear is your star seed. Nomads are always in conflict with the plan.Greatest honor
P9	Is capturing fear battling the pressed back of warriors is seriously extreme. Quality of life and well-being is a path for a loner, lone wolves fight about the wings of love a expression of a select storm voyages Atlantis, cause and effect.
P10	Channels reflection on the wire, guiding principles of your life time under construction, structured.Everything is synopis and a collection of data. My neurons my cells.the bloodline of your ancestors the inner man. The Sun and the Moon.
P11	Peace of Jupiter, Saturn' Roman Gods of agriculture. Pattern of forces that shaped our skeptism life lessons.Karma challenges restrictions of mind there for a void you think you know mean. Grandchildren, the demands of tolerance represent.
P12	Guardianship strength. Planets of structure, stability in adulting depiction of one's feelings. Moon means mind. The Goddess relationship between Mother and child is pioneering chrakas, stones, fertility governed by the moon.
P13	Mind and versality, meditation is consolations for it helps the resistance for cold and diseases. A belief on how to live.Here I give you the keys to preception. Shift into this energy that flows like a river. God is in the midst.
P14	Remind the enemy make demands and command dominion over your life.Spiritual realm is a infinite subject, mind models seeing into self and the law of liberty. For everything in the universe started as a idea in the mind

images:

illustrations/pages/26439.png
illustrations/pages/26445.png
illustrations/pages/8524.png
illustrations/pages/26443.png
illustrations/pages/26091.png
illustrations/pages/1495.png
illustrations/pages/1496.png
illustrations/pages/1500.png
illustrations/pages/13906.png
illustrations/pages/9853.png
illustrations/pages/9850.png
illustrations/pages/9855.png
illustrations/pages/26441.png
illustrations/pages/26436.png
illustrations/pages/26440.png

translations:

