url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=38502&d=0&a=1
id:	38502
title:	Pharaoh: Legend of doggos
author:	Aoibheann Donnell
artist:	Aoibheann Donnell
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/38502.png
desc:	Pharaoh is no ordinary dog. He knows it himself the day he opened his eyes. Read about Pharaohs adventures from the day he was born to the day he died.

page_text:

P1	Age: 3 months. @I believe I am not just a random puppy living in Egypt. I am a Pharaoh that rules over all dogs. Brave, Fierce, Hardworking!
P2	Age:9 months. @My brother Winston had a large grip on the rope. He clearly didn't want me to win tug of war. I never let go of the rope though. I fiercely tugged. My teeth hurt. I tugged and tugged. I was winning! YES!
P3	Age: 1 year.@My brother Winston was Growling at a random other dog he found on the road. I stared curiously at the other dog. It was a small helpless little chihuahua. The chihuahua stared back at me and sheepishly waved his paw at Me.
P4	Age: 1 year, 3 months. @I see the little chihuahua every day now. Still curiously looking at me everytime he sees me. I tilt my head each time. I like the little chihuaha, he seems nice. But Winston is mean to him. He snaps his jaws at him.
P5	1 year, 9 months. @I spotted Winston snarlin, growlin, snappin his jaws at the little chihuahua. The chihuahua looked terrified. I didn't even think about it. I leapt between the two of em and snarled at Winston to leave the chihuahua Alone
P6	Age: 2 years. @Winston is mad at me forever now probably, but I don't care. I saved the chihuahua and that's all that matters. The chihuahua trusts me now. He told me his name. His name is Milo. We are friends now! We are bffs Now!
P7	Age: 2 years, 3 months. @Me and Milo were talking and Giggling together when we met Andrea. She was a rather plump stray cat. She seemed really nice! She gave us free food! What a nice kitty! I think this is the start of a great friendship!
P8	Age: 2 years, 9 months.@Me and Milo Ran around the corner to Andrea's Bin-house. We leapt in. Andrea looked rather grumpy. GO AWAY! She hissed. We were confused and upset. We trotted off with miserable faces. Had we lost a friend?
P9	3 years. @I smelled a rather unusual smell. I followed my nose to where the smell came from. I spotted (and smelled!) A filthy looking and smelling, Andrea. I gasped. Andrea, maybe you should take a bath my friend?
P10	Age: 3 years, 3 months.@How could Andrea do this to ME? I thought we were friends. I had scratch marks on my head from where Andrea had digged her claws. I felt rather sad. I told Milo what had happened. I never trusted another cat again.
P11	Age: 3 years, 9 months. @Me and Milo were bored. Milo dragged his paws across the floor. He always does that when he's bored. I couldn't help but smile. We smiled. The smile turned into a grin. We giggled. The giggles turned to laughter.
P12	Age: 4 years. @Milo and I were very happy. When we were very happy we did fun things together. We danced together. I smiled for the rest of the day. Milo jumped for joy. We both grinned and jumped around.
P13	Age: 4 years, 3 months. @Me and Milo were trotting around the neighbourhood, paws linked when we had an encounter with Andrea again. I was not at all pleased to see her. She swiped a paw at Milo. I snarled fiercely at her. She grabbed me.
P14	Age: 4 years, 9 months. @I didn't see Milo again after that. Was my bff gone forever? Was that the last time I would ever see him again? I was worried. I had horrible dreams about Milo crying out for me  and walking around looking for me.
P15	Age: 5 years.@I spent most of all my spare time doing stuff with my brother Winston now. I try forget about the thought of poor Milo looking for me everywhere but I can't. I wish every night that Milo is safe and he still remembers me.
P16	Age: 5 years, 3 months. @I am quiet happy now after having a good night's sleep and a delicious bacon sandwich. I hung out with Winston all day. We went stargazing which was fun!
P17	Age: 5 years, 9 months. @I saw Milo again. I am very happy but tired too. We ran around the neighbourhood Playing tag with each other. I wrapped my paws around Milo and gave him a warm hug.
P18	Age: 6 years. @I promise to protect Milo so he doesn't go missing again. We Played with each other all day every day. I missed this. He really is an amazing fwend.
P19	Age: 6 years, 3 months. @It was just then Me and Milo Discovered an animal shelter. All the dogs were cooped up in cages. Grabbing Milo, I leapt in the window and found a clever way to free all the dogs from the cages! I was a hero!
P20	Age: 6 years, 9 months @I was elected as the doggo Pharaoh and Milo as my loyal little doggy servant. I promised to be a good doggy Pharaoh until I die. I was living my dream. A Pharaoh. Like my name!
P21	Age: 7 years. @Me and Milo are no longer street dogs either. We were both adopted by a kind girl. We are gonna both have an amazing life for sure.
P22	Age: 7 years, 3 months. @Milo and me are happy as ever. We eat together, play together, live together, love eachother. I could never be a happier Pharaoh than this. Dis da life.
P23	Age: 7 years, 9 months. @Treats. We love treats. Pharaoh love treats. Milo love treats. Milo, don't take my treats. That's all I have to say.
P24	Age: 8 years. @I am a very old Pharaoh. It's time to leave earth. I loved my time here. I will always remember my happy memories here. Milo will too. Love y'all. Hope the earth never forget me. You guys are all my besties, Pharaoh and Milo.

images:

illustrations/pages/25300901.png

translations:

