url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=38778&d=0&a=1
id:	38778
title:	James and his dog
author:	Embry Meyer
artist:	Embry Meyer
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/38778.png
desc:	James loved dogs since he was a little boy. After being given a puppy of his own

page_text:

P1	James is 9 years old. He lives on a farm with his mom. The farm has two cows for milk and seven pigs for meat. He enjoys that there are no neighbors to be loud or annoying.
P2	Tomorrow would be Jame's birthday but little did James know his life was about to change a little bit. James woke up and stretched his limbs. He got out of bed and went downstairs for breakfast.
P3	When he was in the kitchen, breakfast was already made. James was amazed at what his mom had made. His mom said "bacon and eggs for breakfast. Also happy birthday James." James sat down in a chair and said "thank you mom."
P4	He ate breakfast and went outside to feed the pigs and cows. After James fed the animals he went inside and sat on a chair. His mom said "we will open presents a little early." James was happy and confused.
P5	His mom passed him a box and he felt even more confused. James opened it and in the box was a golden retriever puppy. He said sighing slitely"thanks mom." His mom replied "I can take him back."
P6	James said"if you think I will like him I will keep him. She responded with "well what is his npame" "his name will be" he said pausing a second "Neil." James asked if they had any dog food and his mom said "yes."
P7	So James gently put the box with Niel on the ground and got the dog food. Neil woke up at the smell of food and started wagging his tail rapidly. James asked how much food to give Neil and she said "half a cup."
P8	So James filled a measuring cup halfway and gave it to Neil. Neil ate fast. When he was done eating he layed down and slept. James felt hungry and he thought "at least it's lunch time." He walked to the kitchen.
P9	James grabbed a bowl, a box of cereal, and the milk. He poured some of the milk and cereal in his bowl and ate slowly. When he was done he asked "mom want to play a game?" "Sure" she said grabbing a game he never saw.
P10	The first round took longer because James never played. They played UNO until dinner. His mom made steak and when they were done, James fed Neil and sat on the couch. But when he did he felt something squishy. Neil's Poop!
P11	"He pooped on the couch while my mom and I ate dinner!" James thought, so he told his mom what happened. She told him to put Neil outside. James put Neil outside and said "pee and poo outside."
P12	While his mom cleaned the couch, he went to his room and changed into clean clothes. James then went downstairs and put his clothing in the washing machine. He let Neil in so he wouldn't freeze.
P13	Neil walked to his new bed, layed down and slept. His mom said "it's time for bed." James got ready for bed really quick. He laid down in his bed and his mom told him how his parents met. After the story was finished, his mom tucked him in.
P14	She said "goodnight James. I love you."" You to mom. Goodnight" as he fell asleep. When James woke up he was on the floor with Neil on his belly sleeping. James woke Neil up. They got up, and Neil ran down stairs while James did the usual.
P15	But he also fed Neil and let him outside. After ten minutes Neil skrached the door and James let him back in the house. For James today was a disaster. During a game of Flux, Neil peed all over the floor.
P16	At lunch he pooped on the couch, and then at dinner he ate a piece of Jame's pizza. When James was getting tucked in he asked "can we get rid of Neil please?" His mom replied "just one more day sweet pea."
P17	"Okay" James said with a sigh. The next day was like a dream come true. Neil didn't pee or poo on the floor, he didn't steal any food and even saved a lamb from drowning. Then some people came to take Neil away.
P18	James wanted to keep Neil, so he told his mom and she said to the men "No." After six years, James and his dog Neil are still best friends and living on the same farm.

images:

illustrations/pages/94360101.png
illustrations/pages/94360102.png
illustrations/pages/94360103.png
illustrations/pages/94360104.png
illustrations/pages/94360105.png
illustrations/pages/94360106.png
illustrations/pages/94360107.png
illustrations/pages/94360108.png
illustrations/pages/94360109.png
illustrations/pages/94360110.png
illustrations/pages/94360111.png
illustrations/pages/94360112.png
illustrations/pages/94360113.png

translations:

