url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=38796&d=0&a=1
id:	38796
title:	Schools lockdown
author:	African Storybook
artist:	Busisiwe Ndlovu
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/38796.png
desc:	This story reflects children’s experiences of the Covid-19 pandemic.This storybook was created for Zenex Ulwazi Lwethu and is based on children’s reports for RX Radio. RX Radio is a children’s internet radio station

page_text:

P1	——Busisiwe and Bandile are very happy.Schools are closed for lockdown!They are looking forward to time at home.
P2	——After five weeks of lockdown, the sisters are not happy.“I’m doing my best with online learning. It’s a challenge!” sighs Bandi.
P3	——Busi agrees, “I miss going to school.”“Now, school is WhatsApp class group chats, education apps, and education TV!” says Bandi.
P4	——She continues, “Now, school requires more discipline and more dedication.”Busi says, “And we always have to have data and network.”
P5	——“Many families can’t afford data. It’s a financial strain,” says Bandi.Busi thinks of her friends, Buhle and Luka.
P6	——Busi says, “Some kids need the school feeding schemes.”She is worried, “Will their parents be able to buy enough food?”
P7	——Bandi says, “We are fortunate. This lockdown hasn’t really affected us at home financially.”“I really miss my friends,” sighs Busi.
P8	——She adds, “I can talk to them over the phone, but it’s not the same. I like playing with them.”
P9	——Bandi lists, “I miss the atmosphere of school, the teachers, learning new things, and being around my friends.”Mom comes into their room.
P10	——“Girls, I’ve just heard on the radio that schools are re-opening next week,” smiles Mom.Busisiwe and Bandile are very happy!
P11	——QuestionsExplain the meaning of: ‘financial strain’, ‘online learning’, ‘feeding scheme’.Did the sisters enjoy lockdown? Explain your answer.
P12	——This storybook is based on reports for RX Radio. RX Radio is a children’s internet radio station, by and for children.RX Radio operates from the Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital in Cape Town.RX Radio helps children to tell stories about issues important to them.Visit RX Radio

images:

illustrations/pages/3790000399.png

translations:

