url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=39180&d=0&a=1
id:	39180
title:	Jodrix Tiki Taka
author:	Jodice Zimuto
artist:	Jodice Zimuto
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/39180.png
desc:	As an african I advise you to discover things because you are able. Chess its a game that opens your mind. You might see it as war but it make u think to yur limits. Lets shine Inshallah.

page_text:

P1	The Jodrix Tiki Taka its a chess move that no other great chess players have discovered. The move was discovered by me. I respond to the name Jodice Zimuto
P2	Jodrix Tiki Taka means, Jodrix from my name Jodice as the founder, Tiki Taka standing for control. My personal feeling was incredible to discover this new move.
P3	The Jodrix Tiki Taka has seven fantamentals which are team work, vision, mentality, consistency, protection, domination and break even.
P4	Team work, this is were by all the chess pieces work together and this causes the opponent to find it difficult to break the defence mindset
P5	Vision, when playing the Jodrix Tiki Taka as you progress into the game you will get to a point were by you can see your opponent s weakness and where to strike.
P6	Mentality, this fantamental is one of the key to the game. Jodrix Tiki Taka allows you to get mentality as the game progress, the way you move the pieces will seem to be unpredictable.
P7	Consistency, the best fantamental in the Jodrix Tiki Taka. When you started getting pieces, you just can't stop destroying your opponent, it has no mercy.
P8	Protection, the opponent, might have brilliant ideas on how to attack you but you seem to escape. Each piece, if you play the Jodrix Tiki Taka well it would be protected by two to four pieces.
P9	Domination, in chess your opponent might dominate and lose the domination or you might dominate and lose domination. But with Jodrix Tiki Taka you can dominate the game if you really destroy your opponent.
P10	Break even. This even it's a point were by you won't lose pieces or lose control over your opponent you are simply neutral it happens in the game. Break even can help to frustrate your opponent and make him make a blunder.

images:

illustrations/pages/26260101.png

translations:

