url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=39205&d=0&a=1
id:	39205
title:	SPREMONS
author:	Written by Monpress
artist:	Monpress Monpresss
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/39205.png
desc:	A story about  a boy that reincarnates after every death experience

page_text:

P1	I wish I knew why, I wish we were all awake and could see these things but too many people are too busy being regular people that they forget to think, enough of the people talk .... I am here to talk about my self, so my name is 482482,
P2	I was first born in the year 1774 ad, that makes me 248 years old, I have lived a lot of life times I lost count eventually, cuz I kept it going (suicide) when I realized I was immortal, so this is how it all started,
P3	In the year 1790 I was 16 years old. I helped my dad file logs we sold wood, wood barks and charcoal for making fire, my mom Elizabeth, was a full house wife, we lived in Athens Greece, life was finally becoming interesting little did I kno
P4	Life had a lot in stock for me, I was on my way to deliver wood barks to costumers on a Saturday evening, when I slipped due to the snow all around, I felt the heaviest ache in my head, the pain was excruciating, I would have screamed,
P5	But I didn't have enough strength, I looked up from the hill I had fell from, I saw red stains... Then suddenly I felt something in my chest... It was fear, fear of discovering it's my blood, blood from my head, I said to my self, how bad i
P6	Is the injury... I touched my head, and I felt the worm liquid at my touch, my eyes widened in realization that I might not survive loosing this much blood. I tried screaming for help, but I could not... Eventually, the pain drifted away
P7	Slowly and all I felt now in replacement for the heart ache is peace and quietness, my parents were Jews, so I believed in heaven, so I thought to my self, all my life I have done the right thing, there is no way I wont make it to the
P8	Golden city, I began to feel sleepy and slowly evening became night then night became pitch black, and then silence and peace, felt like sleeping for 2 days, and bam I woke up as a young handsome 16 year old Egyptian boy, honestly I don't
P9	What happened to the consciousness of the body I took over, or maybe it was mine but my memory was not here for me to access,  I was confused for the first 2 weeks but then... After that I was happy, I wanted to return to my former
P10	Parents in Athens,  my new parents maria and Yousuf they noticed my change in attitude, Yousuf was a builder he is an expert a very good builder... Past the whole family info... Eventually I died at the age of 18, in the year 1792.

images:

illustrations/pages/53230201.png

translations:

