url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=39346&d=0&a=1
id:	39346
title:	The Kando Forest Disaster
author:	Coolooo 457
artist:	Brian Wambi
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/39346.png
desc:	This story teaches the youth to conserve the earth. Take care of it.

page_text:

P1	It was on a Monday morning. Having woken up early in the morning, my sister and I were equally eager as we shrieked and squealed.
P2	The appointed day had finally reached. My sister and I had decided to go on an Adventure, together with her friend, Nyakabi.After preparing ourselves, We set off on our Adventure.
P3	It was not long before we reached our destination-The Kando Forest. Hurriedly, we boarded a bus and in no time, we had arrived.The sun was now at it's Zenith. Due to the heat of the midday sun, I was almost tempted to pour water on myself.
P4	On entering the forest, we were wowed at the evergreen trees as they looked tall and mighty.@It was not long before we were accompanied by Mr.Twiga, our guide for the forest tour. Suddenly there was smoke all over the place.
P5	As if there was a Fire nearby. We were almost suffocating because of the smog. We tried with our might and main to get to fresh air.We struggled and beared for a long time.
P6	That is when it hit us, where there is smoke, there is a fire. "It is Fire!!",shouted Nyakabi.We ran as if being chased by Lucifer himself and his followers.Smoke was billowing to the skies forming bundles of cloudy dark clouds.
P7	Sparkles of fire glistened in the sky, Turning it into a bright red city. They twinkled brightly.The tongue of fire danced Merrily as they consumed the once magnificent and loved Kando Forest.
P8	Sooner or later, the forest guards came to our rescue as the inferno ragged on with no fire to quench it's thirst. Suddenly, a tongue of light boomed up from the ambus illuminating the area no far away from us. Just like that Nyakabi.
P9	She was on the ground unconscious. Our mind filled with retoric questions, as how to respond to the urgent situation.
P10	After sometime we arrived at the hospital and we were attended to. We found out that she got severely injured, but will recover after sometime. That day, a lesson was permanently infrared in my mind Fire is a great servant but a bad Master.
P11	We, the earthly beings ought to conserve and take good care of our environment. Needless to say, you will never miss the water until the well runs dry. That was such a narrow escape. That day shall forever be engraved in my mind . For eons.

images:

illustrations/pages/18761.png
illustrations/pages/10630401.png
illustrations/pages/10630402.png
illustrations/pages/10630403.png
illustrations/pages/10630404.png
illustrations/pages/10630405.png

translations:

