url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=39368&d=0&a=1
id:	39368
title:	hunter and the smart giraffe
author:	Godwin Victory
artist:	Jacob Kono
lang:	None
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/39368.png
desc:	This story is about a unsuccessful and selfish hunter who was foolish and let a mere giraffe oursmart him find out what the mere girrafe did to him.

page_text:

P1	Once upon a time in a village name udumiri there lived a hunter who was poor and he was an unsuccessful hunter who wanted to catch the biggest animal and become successful and popular his name was amobi.@       Amobi was very very poor.
P2	So one day as he was going on his way to the market he heard people talk about a huge giraffe in the forest that no one has caught it that it was not easy to catch .@    So when amobi heard this he was overwhelmed with joy.
P3	He said finally I would be able to catch something and show the villagers that I am not a poor hunter so he went to tell his friend that he was going to be the one to catch the giraffe and he was boasting but his friend didn't look at him.
P4	But his poor friend pitied him cause he doesn't know what he is putting himself into@   Amobi told his friend to go with him but his friend said he can not leave his little child and risk his life for something dangerous so amobi was angry.
P5	So amobi embark on his journey alone so as amobi was going in the forest he was getting scared but stood up and said "I am a brave hunter I won't be scared".@  So he countinued his journey hoping to find the giraffe people are taking about.
P6	So soon he got tired and fell asleep but as soon as he slept he was dreaming he saw in his dream that he became successful but when he woke up he found out it was only a dream. He countinued with his journey.
P7	Soon he came across the big giraffe everyone was talking about but found out that the giraffe was stuck in a tree he heard a beautiful voice saying please help me and I will make you successful he found out it was coming from the giraffe.
P8	So he went and was shocked to see a talking giraffe so he was having double mind whether to release the giraffe and it will make him successful or to kill it and take it to the village and become very successful and famous.
P9	Soon he decided that he will set the giraffe free but unknownly to him the giraffe was playing a trick on him so the hunter wouldn't kill him so he threw his spare at the rope which the giraffe was tied to.
P10	So as he loose the giraffe the giraffe hit his spare far away from him and laughed at him you stupid hunter I played you a trick do you think I would let you kill me no I can't let you do that to me the hunter was angry.
P11	So he became very angry that the giraffe had tricked him so as the giraffe tried to turn it back and run away the hunter held the giraffe at the tail saying it can't go anywhere that he owns him.
P12	But the giraffe looked at him and laughed and said nobody owns me infact everyone is scared of me cause am tall, huge and strong even you are no Match for me with this word the giraffe pushed the hunter heavily on the ground and went off.
P13	Soon the hunter was in deep pain he was shouting for help but no one came to help him it was really painful for him and his back really hurts including his head was swelling from the fall he had just fell .
P14	The hunter soon stand up and realise that the giraffe had gone he wished he and killed the giraffe earlier or had not been blinded by his own selfish interest he was unhappy and devastated.
P15	So he decided to head back to the village with nothing he lost everything when he went home his friend were laughing at him cause he was boasting earlier before he was unsuccessful again and a mere giraffe has outsmarted him.@      The end

images:

illustrations/pages/25087.png
illustrations/pages/25082.png
illustrations/pages/25083.png
illustrations/pages/25084.png
illustrations/pages/25085.png
illustrations/pages/25086.png
illustrations/pages/25088.png
illustrations/pages/25087.png
illustrations/pages/25089.png

translations:

