url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=39411&d=0&a=1
id:	39411
title:	Tshiamo's Life In The Village
author:	Dilana Woite and Dilana Woite
artist:	Jesse Breytenbach, Magriet Brink, Catherine Groenewald, Rob Owen, Vusi Malindi, Leo Daly, Brian Wambi and Isaac Okwir
lang:	English
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/39411.png
desc:	This is about Tshiamo and her day in village. Her village is full of loving animals and people. She has many sisters and brothers

page_text:

P1	This is Tshiamo. She lives in a village near Kenya. She loves her village. She has many sisters and brothers, uncles and aunties and dads and moms. She is loved by everyone. Tshiamo loves animals very much also! She owns many animals.
P2	One of her brothers is Thabu. He eats lots of fruits and he helps his uncles and aunties with the animals. Tshiamo and Thabu live in a rural area. They also go to a very nice and neat rural school. Their chief runs the entire village.
P3	One of the aunties Auntie Mozie helps the kids pick school uniforms from a urban school shop. Auntie Mozie and her husband are farmers. They bring many fresh fruits and vegetables to the local urban market. She loves all of the children.
P4	Tshiamo likes to go to the urban parks and stargaze the sky. She enjoys the breeze and aeroplanes that flies by. She loves the way the birds fly over the sun and then disappear to the other of the world. She likes to focus on little detials
P5	Meet Glen and Whiskers. Glen is the rooster and Whiskers is the cat. Glen and Whiskers are best friends! They understand each other. Auntie Mozie take Glen and Whiskers to the kral every friday for the afternoon. She believes it brings bond
P6	Glen and Whiskers met the sheep dog. Moze. Moze knows everything about the animals. He learnt it from the chief. Johnson. Johnson rescued Moze when he was just a puppy. Moze was stuck on a little island because he was abandoned.
P7	Johnson found out about Moze when he went exploring. He had a huge heart for animals and people so he decided to rescue Moze and build his own village. That's how he became the chief and the man who rescued many children and people from..
P8	Bad, bad situations. He rescued for a hundred children and many women and men. He was considered the "father" of the village. Everyone respected him but nobody loved him as much as Tshiamo. She spent alot of time with Johnson.
P9	Glen, Whiskers and Moze met one of the horses. His name is Frowny. He isn't very happy because his normally lonely. But Moze spent time with him and learned his language. Moze knows Frowny the most out of everyone else out of the village.
P10	Children in the village loved playing with soccer balls. The two boys Mandu and Joy are the only people who knows how to play soccer professionally. Mandu and Joy are brothers. They spend every day together. They learn alot from each other.
P11	The children in the village like to swim in the dams and rivers. They use floats out of old tires that they find in the rubbish. They keep the dams and rivers very, very clean. They play lot of water games in the dams.
P12	This is Thembi. She teaches sports. She says Joy and Mandu are the top two best players ever! She loves teaching. Especially sports. All the children love her. She finds lot of thrown away and abandoned soccer, tennis and any kind of balls.
P13	This is Gabe. She is Muslim. She also lives in the village expect she lives on the other side where there are more advanced buildings. Gabe is friends with Tshiamo. Gabe is friends with everyone. She is kind hearted and cares alot.
P14	This is Jen and Mpilo. They are considered the village "parents" . They take care of all the children. Jen makes the food and Mpilo teaches the children how to hunt. The children learn alot and gain more intelligence from their teaching.
P15	This is Nbu. He helps with the crops and transportation to transfer some of the veggie and fruit to the urban markets. He takes care of all the dogs, cats and pretty much all the farm animals. His wife Menya helps with supplies for farming.
P16	In the afternoon there is lunch. But what is so special is that they celebrate birthdays, ancestors, their loved ones who passed away and they celebrate it with cake. What the urban givers give in return for the vegetables and fruits.
P17	This is Johnson. You know a little bit about him now. It is almost night time. So Johnson's job is to take the animals to the grazing lands, watch over the farmers and get toys for the children. Everyone loves him.
P18	The sun is setting and the children are playing soccer and other activities. The cows are moving back to the kraals and the other animals are settling also. The children are finishing up their activities and then heading inside their huts.
P19	All the kids are eating supper and going to bed. All the kids learnt a special thing that is now a tradition from Gabe. Always pray before you sleep. And then you can go to sleep. That is Tshiamo's day in the village! Now everyone is asleep

images:

illustrations/pages/9850.png
illustrations/pages/9853.png
illustrations/pages/9840.png
illustrations/pages/7972.png
illustrations/pages/9850.png
illustrations/pages/8520.png
illustrations/pages/8521.png
illustrations/pages/8521.png
illustrations/pages/8522.png
illustrations/pages/9845.png
illustrations/pages/9848.png
illustrations/pages/7977.png
illustrations/pages/25265.png
illustrations/pages/26065.png
illustrations/pages/25808.png
illustrations/pages/18768.png
illustrations/pages/13906.png
illustrations/pages/7978.png
illustrations/pages/311.png

translations:

