url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=39572&d=0&a=1
id:	39572
title:	Friends Forever
author:	Ayeni Adenireti
artist:	Catherine Groenewald
lang:	None
level:	First paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/39572.png
desc:	The story is talkiy about four friends

page_text:

P1	Once upon a time,there lived a group of students attending crown lake academy. They were good dancers. They loved dancing. During their history class,they were all present there,when they heard a song playing they were dancing .
P2	So they decided to become friends and as there friendship grew stronger.They realized that they love dancing,then they formed a dance group and named it "The Rock Girls".
P3	They made friendship bracelet for each other, but they had to face a battle.They had to win the other team which are the best dancers in Attaway.Their names are Lucy, Lily, Rose,Grace.@Lucy had a crush on Henry but she couldn't tell him.
P4	How she felt. Lily had a boy as her best friend named Travis. Travis was a photographer. They went for auditions but they said Lucy,Rose and Grace were okay. Lily group kicked her out of the team because they said that Lily was not okay.
P5	The people in charge of the audition were two. Their names were Stella and Angel. Angel could not make it to the audition because she was busy in the newspaper group. So Stella called Lily and told her to join.
P6	Lily answered and she was part of the team. Travis likes Lily he did not want to tell her. Another boy named Nick developed feelings for her and wanted to ask her out, but since he knew Travis and Lily were close friends.
P7	Nick told Travis about his feelings for lily. Travis could not bear what he said,he gave an excuse and left. Travis felt pain and he has been trying to tell Lily but it has been hard for him. Travis did not tell lily,but lily found out.
P8	Lily's mom was living in London so her mom asked her to come spend holiday with her. She insisted and told her little sister, Mary along with her. When they got their they played,swam in the water. Lucy,Rose and Grace missed her.
P9	They chatted with her on their phones. The holiday went well. So Mary and Lily had to go home when they got home her dance mates told her that they had a dance competition against "The Sparkle Girls",which were the best in Attaway.
P10	During their performance,Lucy fell, lily sprained her ankle.Rose and Grace collided with each other making it hard for the judges to decide their score. The Sparkle Girls won the competition. The rock girls were disappointed.
P11	Their coach Stella was complaining and shouting at them for not performing the way she asked them to. Travis is the manager of the rock girls. The Sparkle Girls had rock girls.They told them that they would never win any dance competition.
P12	It was awful and they were all sad. All Stella cared about was to win she did not think about the team. Stella is a tough person. She only cares about herself. They took a break from dancing but we're together.
P13	They supported and laughed with each other,but their friendship broke. Lucy and Rose had a fight. Lucy was blaming Rose while Rose was blaming Lucy. Lily and Grace tried all their best to make Lucy and rose to resettle the fight.
P14	Their friendship was tearing apart little by little. Lily could not control herself. Grace did not want to come to school anymore. She wanted to attend another schooling California, but they missed each other.
P15	They remembered all what they went through together,how they laughed all day. They remembered the most important thing they love to do. They loved making bracelets and reading novels. Memories like that were unforgettable to them.
P16	They called each other and asked to meet at a restaurant.They apologized to each other. They had a dance competition between different teams. Luckily,they have been practicing. In this dance challenge,they had to win the Sparkle Girls.
P17	They practiced like never before. They die all their best against the remaining four teams Even though they did not win last time . They won this time around they were so happy for each other. Stella was excited about it.
P18	Nothing would break their friendship. If anybody wants to,they will fight the battle together. Travis told lily how he felt about her. Lily also told Travis that she liked him. Lily became Travis girlfriend.

images:

illustrations/pages/9845.png

translations:

