url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=39832&d=0&a=1
id:	39832
title:	THE SECRET SHE KEPT
author:	Mujiza Grace
artist:	Wiehan de Jager, Onamandla Limba, Marleen Visser, Catherine Groenewald, Monge Tlaka, Natalie Propa, Rob Owen, Silva Afonso and Vusi Malindi, Mohini Baijnath and Therson  Boadu
lang:	English
level:	Read aloud
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/39832.png
desc:	When a night out results in an unwanted tragedy

page_text:

P1	"Wear the yellow dress I bought for you. All your other clothes exaggerate your fat and unattractive body. Don't hold your hair back, your forehead is ever protruding. Cover that black eye with proper makeup this time round. Last time you almost embarrassed yourself in front of my friends. Get to the car on time, I will not take it lightly if you make us late again. This time you will pay heavily for that."
P2	These were the words that dictated to Nia and portrayed how she was supposed to look. She had to get it right this time. What she wore. How she wore it. When she showed up. How she showed up. It all had to be perfect. Her husband had trained her to be perfect. Cover up. Don't speak unless he signaled her. This of all the nights was the night she had to act prim and proper.
P3	Managing Director Marcus of Oil and Oil Limited was a reputable man. A man of excellent and enviable reputation. He was a man who did no wrong in the eyes of the society that looked up to him. In school, children were encouraged to work hard and become like Marcus. Girls were encouraged to save themselves for a man like Marcus. He was a mother's delight and a father's pride. He had it all together, and when he didn't, he made it all come together.
P4	Image! We must create it! We must live up to it!'' That was the daily mantra his family had to live by. Now here he was, married to the daughter of the prominent business mogul Chief Tumbo, Nia. They had two sons to show for their union. One perfect and one almost perfect son, as Marcus would introduce them. He had gotten Nia cheaply, as he always jokingly bragged to his friends, and he was determined to fix her. Make her. Remake her. She had to be perfect. Everything had to be perfect.
P5	They had met when they were both students in school. They were from different worlds, but they somehow got along. At least that is what Nia convinced herself. 'I mean, what is one occasional slap? He was probably just angry, and maybe Nia was just too provocative. She talked too much.' These are the words Nia would use to make excuses for Marcus's behaviour. She always believed that a good guy was hard to come by. She had to hold on to this one.
P6	One night while at the pub alone Nia was drunk. It was clear she wasn't thinking straight and was likely to do something she'd regret. She had just gotten into a fight with her boyfriend, and she needed to clear her head. A few men tried to approach her and take advantage of her. She had gotten herself a glass of water, sat down somewhere quiet, and tried to get herself together. She woke up alone in a bed at a nearby motel. She knew something had happened to her.
P7	Nia started drinking alcohol around the time she turned fifteen, and it wasn't long after that she started having sex. She and her mates would go to parties on the weekends and drink heaps, and sometimes she'd hook up with some guy she met at the party. Sometimes she sort of knew them beforehand, but other times she didn't. Lots of times her memory of the night would be sort of blurry. She had never been frightened; because she had always been able to defend herself, but sometimes she felt " used." This morning was one of those sometimes.
P8	It was from this incident that she found out she was pregnant. She talked to Marcus and he said that he would do her a favour by marrying her. Nia, not wanting to disgrace her family, agreed to this agreement. Marcus agreed to keep her secret and Nia was to be eternally indebted to him. That was their deal. Nia dropped out of school and her father helped settle Marcus after their wedding. His status and everything had to be up to standard. He had to fit into the family business. On this particular night, he had just been nominated for the prestigious global award 'Oil Mogul Of The Year', which he had to attend with his family. It would just look good that way. The perfect family image.
P9	'Ngrrrr!!' The sound from the telephone startled Nia who was done preparing herself for the award ceremony. It was the driver signaling her that it was time for them to leave. The Master would not be impressed if they were late. Hastily, Nia put her shoes on and hurried off to meet her sons who were already in the car.
P10	Tommy, her eldest son, had on a long-sleeved shirt to cover the bruises from his hands because of a misunderstanding they had with Marcus the previous week. The wound was healing well, this time no blood could be seen staining the shirt. They all shared a silent smile and were silent throughout the ride. Marcus had trained them to keep quiet lest they said something that would make the driver uncomfortable. Whatever went on in their house, stayed in their house. Outsiders had no business knowing.
P11	It was at such events that Nia was reminded of the life she could have had. She saw ladies her age as career women who had happy homes and whose husbands supported them to attain their full potential. Children who didn't have to wear long sleeved shirts to cover up or have to act perfect. They played. Laughed. They were children. Husbands and wives could share light moments filled with laughter.
P12	'Nia. Meet my friend Tim.' Nia was unceremoniously dragged out of her thoughts by her husband's party voice. Calm. Loving. Believable. Nia had no friends Marcus made sure of it. Any male friends she had Marcus accused her of sleeping around with them. That's what she enjoyed doing, after all, according to him. All her female friends were gossips, he would say. She rarely, if ever, saw her family. The evening went well until at some point, Marcus got angry, so angry that they had to leave. Nia could not, for the life in her, make out what could have upset him. The ride was silent. Too silent. She knew this silence. This one ended in violence.
P13	'You whore!' Marcus shouted when he and Nia were finally in the room alone. During his seemingly unending yelling, Nia discovered that she had forgotten to put on her wedding ring when she was leaving the house. This turned into insults and accusations of how she wanted other men to think she was single. She was flirting with other men just like she had done at the pub the night she got raped. Marcus forced himself on her and beat her continuously. This time she knew she was going to die. She had to stop him. She pushed him, and he hit his head and lost consciousness.
P14	Nia breathlessly hurried out of the room only to witness the horrifying sight of her sons on the other side of the door crying. They had heard it all. They had always heard it all. They knew. When there was violence, Nia used to just get in the car and drive into the next town, just to get away, with the kids. Sleep in the car with the kids. The next morning she'd come back and get them ready for school and then go to work for eight hours standing up all day tired out, then maybe it would happen again the next night, and she'd have to go again.
P15	The kids would be tired and cranky at school, and she would often get calls from the teachers to tell her they were getting into trouble. She didn't want to involve her family, so she just handled it by herself. All those years. The pain of all those years of abuse flashed before her eyes, and then it dawned on her that the kids will always have those memories too.
P16	On this day, Nia had had enough. She ran out, got in the car, and left for her parents' house. She explained to them all that had been happening, and her father sent the police to arrest Marcus. Nia and her sons went for counselling where she got to learn about abuse and that she was the victim. It was not her fault. It was not something she or her children did. She was referred to a community worker, who helped her get a domestic violence protection order, and came to court with her.
P17	She gave Nina her life back. Nina went back to school and got her career back on track. She saw the world for what it was, which was full of bright and lively people. She saw other people around her, and none of them had sporting black eyes, and she could see they weren't living the same lifestyle as her. They were all older, yet they looked younger than her. They kind of had the world at their feet. Here she was coping with domestic violence, two kids, and an abuser.
P18	She realized she didn't want her kids to make any woman their punching bag because that's exactly what she was. Then she started getting stronger in herself. She and her children were free. Free at last.

images:

illustrations/pages/1425.png
illustrations/pages/6444.png
illustrations/pages/10067.png
illustrations/pages/1192.png
illustrations/pages/96910301.png
illustrations/pages/13658.png
illustrations/pages/42180101.png
illustrations/pages/27471.png
illustrations/pages/6516.png
illustrations/pages/72430204.png
illustrations/pages/14741.png
illustrations/pages/6743.png
illustrations/pages/2174.png
illustrations/pages/93740442.png
illustrations/pages/12885.png
illustrations/pages/13824.png
illustrations/pages/14753.png
illustrations/pages/19327.png
illustrations/pages/9493.png

translations:

