url:	https://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=39874&d=0&a=1
id:	39874
title:	MISS BEAUTY
author:	Fatma Maleta
artist:	Rob Owen, Dr Sibongile Mnisi, Vusi Malindi, Ruby Thompson, Catherine Groenewald, Jesse Breytenbach and Sayan  Mukherjee
lang:	English
level:	Read aloud
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 4.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/39874.png
desc:	Ndela 

page_text:

P1	I am Ndela Pittins I grew up  at  a small  village  in South Africa .We live in a simple home raised by our loving mother.I have a playful  little brother called Eden
P2	Growing up,it had always been mom, Eden and I . We had lost our father some years back . But we were always happy.Our mother did her best to give us a good life .
P3	After  dad died , my mum took care of everything.She worked very hard  day and night .She is my Queen , role model and  my  best friend . @When ever i needed advise i would talk to my mum .She gave the best advice ever.Not to forget her fingerlicking food she  cooked  that made me crave for more.My mother  is an enterpreneur, who owns her restaurant called La Amore .La Amore was small but very famous in the village , hopefully someday it will be very famous in South Africa.That's her biggest dream.
P4	While growing up in South Africa , i had many friends from different races .Yet we always joyfully played together .@Priya was Indian, Robert  was European, Lee hadbeen Korean,Tiana mixed race and others were my race, black.@That kind of black that shines .Like my colour. We are all unique in our own ways .That's the lovieliest feeling ever.
P5	All that mattered and still matters is love.As children we were always happy and full of life.Children jumped here and there . Laughters   could be vividly heard  which made this a homely and peaceful place to live in .
P6	Sometimes,I miss my father.Mum doesn't like  talking about him but i imagine us  together.I think she's more hurt than Eden and I .She just doesn't have any other choice but to be strong for the both of us .My parents loved each other .They had great memories together.
P7	My mother says that a persons beauty is from the inside not just outside.She also encourages me and my brother to study hard , and work hard because there is nothing for free in life.We should also be careful of strangers , she insists .Education is important for all children of the world .It empowers us and helps in building a better future.
P8	Inspired by her ,I wanted to fulfill my dream of becoming Miss South Africa . I  had to study hard very hard at  school.I  even took part in different pageants and beauty competitions .I  failed many times  over and over again.But my family hadbeen always very supportive of me.My brother , Eden would always cheer up for me on the front row alongside  my mom .This gave me hope to get back up again and again.
P9	She encouraged me to take part in many beauty contests  . I failed many times and felt very disappointed in myself .But kept going until oneday  i reached top ten in the Regional competition of Miss Beauty contest , whereby i won first place at the end of the competition .I saw my mom's tears of joy and found myself crying .
P10	Two years later, i  took part in the Miss World competition , whereby i was crowned Miss World for  South Africa   2012  in Paris, France.When my name hadbeen  called out loud and i , almost collapsed out of joy . That had been my moment  .My mom was so proud of me and Eden out of nowhere came to the stage and hugged me so tight which he got kicked for but i told everyone out loud  .''Excuse me , ladies and gentlemen that's my crazy brother .''And they all laughed out loud .My mom welcomed me happily when i returned home .And Eden came and gave me a hug .So proud of my  younger brother  who became a successful business man..
P11	Hard work really pays off.I learned that beauty should be for impact .And i  am so proud of the woman i have become.In my village the stories of the brave Ndela are narrated every now and then .Every girl now now wants to be Miss beauty.I had made my mother so proud , hopefully father would be even more proud smiling in heaven.
P12	But the real beauty is not in being beautiful .Kindness ,  love , humility ,unity , compassion , sympathy for each other , good manners , and hard work .That's the kind of beauty we all need for within us lies beauty.
P13	I started a charity to help refugees in the world called ONE  WORLD hoping the world would be a better place for all humankind, full of beautiful people from within and never runs out of laughter, where peace and love always prevails no more wars , just the love  .Only love .
P14	My mom finally expanded her restaurant all over South Africa.She owns ten branches now and has become successful.Eden is helping mum out and i do what i can. And she has  now moved in a bigger house .Well as for me , its my graduation day  .I am so excited for my MBA at The  university  of Cape Town.Hooray ! that's my story of a little girl who was encouraged to dream big.

images:

illustrations/pages/9492.png
illustrations/pages/9495.png
illustrations/pages/9493.png
illustrations/pages/9496.png
illustrations/pages/19880.png
illustrations/pages/93740657.png
illustrations/pages/1508.png
illustrations/pages/9372.png
illustrations/pages/9840.png
illustrations/pages/17482.png
illustrations/pages/17474.png
illustrations/pages/7977.png
illustrations/pages/20831524.png
illustrations/pages/19868.png
illustrations/pages/93190604.png

translations:

Kiswahili (Translation)	BINTI MREMBO	id=39888
