url:	http://africanstorybook.org/reader.php?id=9076&d=0&a=1
id:	9076
title:	Together We're Strong
author:	Liesl Jobson
artist:	Alice Toich
lang:	English
level:	Longer paragraphs
lic:	Creative Commons: Attribution 3.0
thumb:	http://africanstorybook.org/illustrations/covers/9076.png
desc:	Learn the story of Albertina Sisulu

page_text:

P1	One bright night the moon was bigger,  fatter and pinker than ever. Her breath came fast. The baby was ready. The aunties in the birthing room rubbed her back and warmed the water. When Monikazi held her beautiful daughter in her arms,  she knew she was a special girl,  a fighter.   What a blessing! Her name is Nontsikelelo. She will be the mother of all blessings.
P2	Nontsikelelo was beautiful and strong with crinkling black button eyes. She loved her older brother,  Mcengi. He made her laugh and so the laughter spread. She loved to eat meat before she had teeth. Her favourite aunt always kept a little portion on the side of her plate for Ntsiki. Mcengi chased the chickens that scratched in the garden where Ma Monikazi grew spinach and squash to feed her family. Ntsiki ran after him as her legs grew strong.
P3	Ma Monikazi had another baby boy,  Velaphi,  and another,  Qudalele. Finally another sister,  Nomyaleko. Little Ntsiki folded napkins and washed the baby clothes. She swept the house and fed the fire. She picked up her baby brother when he cried and tickled him till he laughed.   She taught them to sing: "Be strong,  little one. Winter is gone. Be brave,  little one. Together we're strong!"
P4	Qingqiwe,  her grandfather,  raised horses. His favourite was Shishi,  a glossy black mare. As soon as Ntsiki was old enough,  he hoisted her on to the saddle in front of him. His strong arms reached around her. He laced the reins through her fingers.   He taught her to talk softly to Shishi,  to groom her with a hard bristled brush. When she stroked its glossy coat,  Albertina whispered,  "You are the most beautiful creature. Thank you for letting me ride on your back."
P5	Her father,  Bonilizwe,  came home from the mines at Christmas. Ntsiki pulled herself up onto Shishi's broad back. She rode out to meet him at the bus stop. Ntsiki sat tall and straight. Her knees held firm. She handled the reins with gentle fingers.   How proud Bonilizwe was of his daughter. The biggest smile Ntsiki had ever seen covered her father's face.
P6	On her sixth birthday she went to school. "You must choose an English name," said the Presbyterian teacher,  but Ntsiki liked her own name. "Why do I need a new name?" she asked. The teacher scowled and read the names aloud: "Adah,  Agnes,  Albertina,  Anna." What did they mean? Ntsiki liked the long name best. Al-ber-ti-na! The name had rhythm. Al-ber-ti-na! The name had bounce. Albertina was a name you didn't mess with.
P7	When her cousin married a handsome man from a nearby town,  Albertina was chosen as an umkhapi. The maid of honour! Weeks before the wedding,  she stitched her isikhakha,  the short traditional skirt,  and threaded bright beads onto her amatikiti. Her mother gave her the white flag and said,  "You have a big job,  my blessing." At the bend in the road Albertina waved the flag,  then turned Shishi back,  leading everybody from miles around to the ceremony. People would gossip if she made a mistake,  but the guests lined the road. They ululated and sang. They threw down flowers for the horse and the girl.
P8	Her mother was often sick and needed Albertina to look after the home. In her last year of primary school,  Albertina was the oldest pupil in the school. She was chosen to be the head girl and wore her badge with pride.   Her best friend,  Betty,  told her about a competition,  saying,  "You must apply,  my clever friend." "What is the prize?" asked Albertina,  growing curious.
P9	The test began. Albertina's fingers shook. The sums were tricky. Her mouth went dry. Her hand cramped on her pencil but she continued. "Well done,  Albertina!" said her teacher at the end. The important official arrived and called the top two students to the stage. "Well done to Albertina for full marks," he said,  "but you are too old. The scholarship goes to."
P10	Soon enough there was a scholarship for Albertina. Mariazell near Matatiele was a long way from Xolobe,  but the whole village erupted. Their home girl was off to high school. She would make them proud. They threw a party like no other. The women brewed the sorghum beer and lit the fires. They slaughtered chickens and stirred up pots of meat. Albertina smiled till her face ached.
P11	Albertina loved the nuns who taught her. Could she become a holy sister? "But nuns earn no salary," said Father Bernard. "Perhaps you should become a nurse? You'll be paid while you study."
P12	Albertina took a train to Johannesburg. She bought a smart white uniform,  new navy shoes and a shiny red fountain pen. Sick people came all day to the hospital. She cleaned their wounds with careful fingers. She held the old people gently. When the babies cried,  she sang: "Be strong,  little one. Winter's not long. Be brave,  little one. Together we're strong!"
P13	Walter Sisulu was a brave and clever man who dreamed of freedom for South Africa. His big smile captured Albertina's eye. They walked together down the city streets. Her delicate hand rested on his arm. Walter wanted Albertina to be the mother of his children.
P14	Police came in the middle of the night,  banging on the door. Albertina scolded the men who messed up her house. "How rude you are!" she said,  "trampling mud inside my home."
P15	But even on the darkest nights,  she could see a sliver of moon through the window in her cell. She sang the song that Ma Monikazi sang before she was born: "Be strong,  little one. Winter's not long. Be brave,  little one. Together we're strong!"

images:

illustrations/pages/9064.png
illustrations/pages/9063.png
illustrations/pages/9074.png
illustrations/pages/9074.png
illustrations/pages/9075.png
illustrations/pages/9075.png
illustrations/pages/9065.png
illustrations/pages/9065.png
illustrations/pages/9066.png
illustrations/pages/9067.png
illustrations/pages/9068.png
illustrations/pages/9069.png
illustrations/pages/9070.png
illustrations/pages/9071.png
illustrations/pages/9072.png
illustrations/pages/9073.png

translations:

